Once upon a time, in the magical land of Equestria, there were two regal sisters who ruled together and created harmony for all the land. To do this, the eldest used her unicorn powers to raise the sun at dawn; the younger brought out the moon to begin the night. Thus, the two sisters maintained balance for their kingdom and their subjects, all the different types of ponies. But as time went on, the younger sister became resentful. The ponies relished and played in the day her elder sister brought forth, but shunned and slept through her beautiful night. One fateful day, the younger unicorn refused to lower the moon to make way for the dawn. The elder sister tried to reason with her, but the bitterness in the young one's heart had transformed her into a wicked mare of darkness: Nightmare Moon.
She vowed that she would shroud the land in eternal night. Reluctantly, the elder sister harnessed the most powerful magic known to ponydom: the Elements of Harmony. Using the magic of the Elements of Harmony, she defeated her younger sister, and banished her permanently in the moon. The elder sister took on responsibility for both...
...sun and moon...
...and harmony has been maintained in Equestria for generations since. Hmm... Elements of Harmony. I know I've heard of those before... but where?
There you are, Twilight! Moon Dancer is having a little get-together in the west castle courtyard. You wanna come?
Oh, sorry, girls... I've got a lot of studying to catch up on.
[sigh] Does that pony do anything except study? I think she's more interested in books than friends.
I know I've heard of the Elements of Harmony.
Ow!
Spike! Spi-ike! Spike?
There you are. Quick, find me that old copy of Predictions and Prophecies. What's that for?
Well, it was a gift for Moon Dancer, but...
Oh Spike, you know we don't have time for that sort of thing.
But we're on a break!
No, no, no... no, no, no! [grunts] Spike!
It's over here!
Ah! Elements, Elements, E, E, E... Aha! Elements of Harmony, see: Mare in the Moon?
Mare in the Moon? But that's just an old ponies' tale.
Mare, mare... aha! The Mare in the Moon, myth from olden pony times. A powerful pony who wanted to rule Equestria, defeated by the Elements of Harmony and imprisoned in the moon. Legend has it that on the longest day of the thousandth year, the stars will aid in her escape, and she will bring about nighttime eternal! [gasp] Spike! Do you know what this means?
No— whoa!
Ow!
Take a note please, to the Princess.
Okie dokie.
My dearest teacher, my continuing studies of pony magic have led me to discover that we are on the precipice of disaster!
Hold on. Preci... preci...
Threshold.
Threh...
Uh, brink? Ugh, that something really bad is about to happen! For you see, the mythical Mare in the Moon is in fact Nightmare Moon, and she's about to return to Equestria, and bring with her eternal night! Something must be done to make sure this terrible prophecy does not come true. I await your quick response. Your faithful student, Twilight Sparkle.
Twi... light Spar... kle. Got it!
Great! Send it.
Now?
Of course!
Uh, I dunno, Twilight, Princess Celestia's a little busy getting ready for the Summer Sun Celebration. And it's like, the day after tomorrow.
That's just it, Spike. The day after tomorrow is the thousandth year of the Summer Sun Celebration! It's imperative that the Princess is told right away!
Impera... impera...
Important!
Whoa!
Okay, okay! [inhale] There, it's on its way. But I wouldn't hold your breath...
Oh, I'm not worried, Spike. The Princess trusts me completely. In all the years she's been my mentor she's never once doubted me.
See? I knew she would want to take immediate action.
[clears throat] My dearest, most faithful student Twilight. You know that I value your diligence and that I trust you completely.
Mm-hm!
...but you simply must stop reading those dusty old books!
My dear Twilight, there is more to a young pony's life than studying, so I'm sending you to supervise the preparations for the Summer Sun Celebration in this year's location: Ponyville. And, I have an even more essential task for you to complete: make some friends!
Look on the bright side, Twilight. The Princess arranged for you to stay in a library. Doesn't that make you happy?
Yes, yes it does. You know why? Because I'm right! I'll check on the preparations as fast as I can, then get to the library to find some proof of Nightmare Moon's return.
Then... when will you make friends, like the Princess said?
She said to check on preparations. I am her student, and I'll do my royal duty, but the fate of Equestria does not rest on me making friends.
Thank you, sirs.
Maybe the ponies in Ponyville have interesting things to talk about. Come on, Twilight, just try!
Um... hello?
Well, that was interesting all right.
Summer Sun Celebration official overseer's checklist. Number one, banquet preparations: Sweet Apple Acres.
Yeehaw!
[sigh] Let's get this over with... Good afternoon. My name is Twilight Sparkle—
Well, howdy-doo, Miss Twilight, a pleasure makin' your acquaintance. I'm Applejack. We here at Sweet Apple Acres sure do like makin' new friends!
Friends? Actually, I—
So, what can I do you for?
[clears throat] Well, I am in fact here to supervise preparations for the Summer Sun Celebration. And you're in charge of the food?
We sure as sugar are! Would you care to sample some?
As long as it doesn't take too long...
Soup's on, everypony!
Now, why don't I introduce y'all to the Apple family?
Thanks, but I really need to hurry—
This here's Apple Fritter. Apple Bumpkin. Red Gala. Red Delicious, Golden Delicious, Caramel Apple, Apple Strudel, Apple Tart, Baked Apples, Apple Brioche, Apple Cinnamon Crisp... [deep breath] Big McIntosh, Apple Bloom and Granny Smith. Up'n'attem, Granny Smith, we got guests.
[snort] Wha..? Soup's on? I'm up, here I come, ahm comin'...
Why, I'd say you're already part of the family!
[spit] [nervous laughter] Okay, well, I can see the food situation is handled, so we'll be on our way.
Aren't you gonna stay for brunch?
Sorry, but we have an awful lot to do...
...fine.
Food's all taken care of, next is weather.
Ugh... I ate too much pie...
Hmm, there's supposed to be a Pegasus pony named Rainbow Dash clearing the clouds.
Well, she's not doing a very good job, is she?
Nng.
Nnnn.
[laughter] Lemme help you.
Let me guess. You're Rainbow Dash.
The one and only. Why, you heard of me?
I heard you were supposed to be keeping the sky clear. [sigh] I'm Twilight Sparkle, and the Princess sent me to check on the weather.
Yeah, yeah, that'll be a snap. I'll do it in a jiffy. Just as soon as I'm done practicing.
Practicing for what?
The Wonderbolts! They're gonna perform at the Celebration tomorrow, and I'm gonna show 'em my stuff!
The Wonderbolts?
Yep!
The most talented flyers in all of Equestria?
That's them!
Pfft! Please. They'd never accept a Pegasus who can't even keep the sky clear for one measly day.
Hey, I could clear this sky in ten seconds flat.
Prove it.
[sounds of exertion] Loop-de-loop around, and wham! What'd I say? Ten. Seconds. Flat. I'd never leave Ponyville hanging. [sheep baaing] [chuckles] You should see the look on your face. Ha! You're a laugh, Twilight Sparkle. I can't wait to hang out some more.
Rrgh.
Wait! It's kinda pretty once you get used to it!
Decorations. Beautiful...
Yes, the décor is coming along nicely. This ought'a be quick. I'll be at the library in no time. Beautiful indeed.
Not the décor, her!
No, no, no, oh! Goodness no.
How are my spines? Are they straight?
Good afternoon—
Just a moment, please! I'm 'in the zone', as it were. Oh, yes! Sparkle always does the trick, does it not? Why, Rarity, you are a talent. Now, um, how can I help yo— [yelp] Oh my stars, darling! Whatever happened to your coiffure?!
Oh, you mean my mane? Well, it's a long story. I'm just here to check on the decorations, and then I'll be out of your hair!
Out of my hair? What about your hair?!
Wait! Where are we going?! Help!
No, no, uh-uh. Too green. Too yellow. Too poofy. Not poofy enough. Too frilly. Too... shiny. Now go on, my dear. You were telling me where you're from.
[wincing] I've... been sent... from Canterlot... to—
Huh?
Canterlot?! Oh, I am so envious! The glamour, the sophistication! I have always dreamed of living there! I can't wait to hear all about it! We are gonna be the best of friends, you and I... Emeralds?! What was I thinking? Let me get you some rubies!
Quick! Before she decides to dye my coat a new color!
Wasn't she wonderful?
Focus, Casanova. What's next on the list?
[clears throat] Oh, uh, music! It's the last one!
Oh my. Um, stop please, everyone, umm. Excuse me, sir? I mean no offense, but your rhythm is just a teeny-tiny bit off. Now, follow me, please. A-one, a-two, a-one two three-
Hello!
Oh my, I'm so sorry, I didn't mean to frighten your birds. I'm just here to check up on the music and it's sounding beautiful. [pause] I'm Twilight Sparkle. [pause] What's your name?
[very quietly] Um... I'm Fluttershy.
I'm sorry, what was that?
[even quieter] Um... My name is Fluttershy.
Didn't quite catch that.
[pause] Well, um, it looks like your birds are back, so I guess everything's in order. Keep up the good work!
Oookay. [to Spike] Well, that was easy.
[gasp] A baby dragon!
Oh, I've never seen a baby dragon before. He's sooo cute!
Well, well, well...!
Oh my, he talks. I didn't know dragons could talk. That's just so incredibly wonderful I, I just don't even know what to say!
Well, in that case we'd better be going.
Wait, wait! What's his name?
I'm Spike.
Hi Spike, I'm Fluttershy. Wow, a talking dragon! And what do dragons talk about?
Well, what do you wanna know?
Absolutely everything.
Well... I started out as a cute little purple and green egg...
...and that's the story of my whole entire life! Well, up until today. Do you wanna hear about today?
Oh, yes, please!
Gyah!
I am so sorry, how did we get here so fast? This is where I'm staying while in Ponyville and my poor baby dragon needs his sleep.
No I don't— whoa!
Aww, wook at dat, he's so sweepy he can't even keep his widdle bawance!
Poor thing, you simply must get into bed...
Yes, yes, we'll get right on that. Well, g'night!
Huh. Rude much?
Sorry, Spike, but I have to convince the Princess that Nightmare Moon is coming, and we're running out of time! I just need to be alone so I can study without a bunch of crazy ponies trying to make friends all the time. Now, where's the light?
Surprise!
Surprise!
Hi, I'm Pinkie Pie, and I threw this party just for you! Were you surprised? Were ya? Were ya? Huh huh huh?
Very surprised. Libraries are supposed to be quiet.
Well, that's silly! What kind of welcome party would this be if it were quiet? I mean, duh, bo-ring! Y'see, I saw you when you first got here, remember? You were all "hello" and I was all [deep gasp], remember? Y'see I've never saw you before and if I've never saw you before that means you're new, 'cause I know everypony, and I mean everypony in Ponyville!
And if you're new, that meant you haven't met anyone yet, and if you haven't met anyone yet, you must not have any friends, and if you don't have any friends then you must be lonely, and that made me so sad, then I had an idea, and that's why I went [deep gasp]! I must throw a great big ginormous super-duper spectacular welcome party and invite everyone in Ponyville! See? And now you have lots and lots of friends!
Are you all right, sugarcube?
Aww, she's so happy she's crying!
"Hot sauce".
Ooh... [with mouth full] What? It's good!
Hey Twilight! Pinkie Pie's starting "pin the tail on the pony"! Wanna play?
No! All the ponies in this town are crazy! Do you know what time it is?!
It's the eve of the Summer Sun Celebration. Everypony has to stay up, or they'll miss the Princess raise the sun! You really should lighten up, Twilight. It's a party!
Ugh, here I thought I'd have time to learn about the Elements of Harmony but, silly me, all this ridiculous friend-making has kept me from it! "Legend has it that on the longest day of the thousandth year, the stars will aid in her escape, and she will bring about everlasting night." I hope the Princess was right... I hope it really is just an old pony tale...
C'mon, Twilight, it's time to watch the sunrise!
Isn't this exciting? Are you excited, 'cause I'm excited, I've never been so excited— well, except for the time that I saw you walking into town and I went [deep gasp] but I mean really, who can top that?
Fillies and gentlecolts, as mayor of Ponyville, it is my great pleasure to announce the beginning of the Summer Sun Celebration!
In just a few moments, our town will witness the magic of the sunrise, and celebrate this, the longest day of the year! And now, it is my great honor to introduce to you the ruler of our land, the very pony who gives us the sun and the moon each and every day, the good, the wise, the bringer of harmony to all of Equestria...
Ready?
...Princess Celestia!
Huh?
This can't be good.
Remain calm, everypony, there must be a reasonable explanation!
Ooh, ooh, I love guessing games! Is she hiding?
She's gone!
Oh no... Nightmare Moon!
Oh, my beloved subjects. It's been so long since I've seen your precious little sun-loving faces.
What did you do with our Princess?!
[muffled] Whoa there, Nelly...
[chuckle] Why, am I not royal enough for you? Don't you know who I am?
Does my crown no longer count now that I have been imprisoned for a thousand years? Did you not recall the legend? Did you not see the signs?
I did. And I know who you are. You're the Mare in the Moon – Nightmare Moon!
Well well well, somepony who remembers me. Then you also know why I'm here.
"Elements of Harmony, see 'Mare in the Moon'"?
But that's just an old ponies' tale.
She will bring about nighttime eternal.
It's imperative that the princess is told right away.
I knew she would wanna take immediate action.
My dear Twilight, there is more to a young pony's life than studying. Make some friends!
All the ponies in this town are crazy!
I hope the Princess was right.
She's gone!
Oh no. Nightmare Moon!
Seize her! Only she knows where the Princess is!
Ergh...
Come back here! [pants] Nighttime? Forever? Where's she going?
Uh... We gotta stop Nightmare!...
You've been up all night, Spike. You are a baby dragon after all. Elements, elements, elements... Ugh! How can I stop Nightmare Moon without the Elements of Harmony?
And just what are the Elements of Harmony? And how did you know about Nightmare Moon, huh? Are you a spy? Whoa!
Simmer down, Sally. She ain't no spy. But she sure knows what's going on. Don't you, Twilight?
I read all about the prediction of Nightmare Moon. Some mysterious objects called the Elements of Harmony are the only things that can stop her, but I don't know what they are, where to find them; I don't even know what they do!
"The Elements of Harmony: A Reference Guide."
How did you find that?!
[sing-song voice] It was under "E"!
Oh. There are six Elements of Harmony, but only five are known: Kindness, Laughter, Generosity, Honesty and Loyalty. The sixth is a complete mystery. It is said, the last known location of the five elements was in the ancient castle of the royal pony sisters. It is located in what is now--
The Everfree Forest!
Whee! Let's go!
Not so fast. Look, I appreciate the offer, but I'd really rather do this on my own.
No can do, sugarcube. We sure ain't lettin' any friend of ours go into that creepy place alone. We're stickin' to you like caramel on a candy apple.
Especially if there's candy apples in there. What? Those things are good.
So, none of you have been in here before?
Ugh, heavens no! Just look at it - it's dreadful.
And it ain't natural. Folks say it don't work the same as Equestria.
What's that supposed to mean?
Nopony knows. You know why?
Rainbow, quit it.
'cause everypony who's ever come in has never come out!
Fluttershy! Quick!
Oh my goodness, oh my goodness.
Hold on! I'm a-comin'!
Applejack! What do I do?
Let go.
Are you crazy?
No I ain't. I promise you'll be safe.
That's not true!
Now listen here. What I'm sayin' to you is the honest truth. Let go, and you'll be safe.
Yaaah! Phew-wah!
Sorry girls. I'm not used to holding anything more than a bunny or two.
And once Pinkie and Rarity were saved, whoosh... Me and Fluttershy loop-de-loop around and WHAM! Caught you right in the nick of time.
Yes, Rainbow, I was there, and I'm very grateful, but we gotta- [gasp] A manticore!
We've gotta get past him!
Take that, you ruffian!
My hair! Woop--
Wait.
YEE-HAW! Git along, little dogie.
Wait.
Whoa! All yours, partner.
I'm on it.
Wait!
Rainbow!
WAIT!
Shhh... It's okay. Oh, you poor, poor little baby.
Little?
Now this might hurt for just a second.
Fluttershy!
[giggles] Aw you're just a little ol' baby kitty, aren't you? Yes you are, yes you are.
How did you know about the thorn?
I didn't. Sometimes we all just need to be shown a little kindness.
No. My eyes need a rest from all this icky muck. Well, I didn't mean that literally.
That ancient ruin could be right in front of our faces and we wouldn't even know it.
I didn't see you there, my apologies.
Right here... guh...
Oh wait, I think I stepped in somethin'.
It's just mud.
Aah!
Huh?
Pinkie, what are you doing?! Run!
Oh girls, don't you see?
When I was a little filly and the sun was going down...
Tell me she's not...
The darkness and the shadows, they would always make me frown...
She is.
I'd hide under my pillow From what I thought I saw But Granny Pie said that wasn't the way To deal with fears at all
Then what is?
She said, "Pinkie, you gotta stand up tall Learn to face your fears You'll see that they can't hurt you Just laugh to make them disappear."
Ha! Ha! Ha!
So, giggle at the ghostly Guffaw at the grossly Crack up at the creepy Whoop it up with the weepy Chortle at the kooky Snortle at the spooky
And tell that big dumb scary face to take a hike and leave you alone and if he thinks he can scare you then he's got another thing coming and the very idea of such a thing just makes you wanna... hahahaha... heh...
Laaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaauuuugh!
How are we gonna cross this?
Huh?
[sobbing] What a world, what a world.
Excuse me, sir. Why are you crying?
Oh, give me a break.
That's what all the fuss is about?
Why, of course it is. How can you be so insensitive? Oh, just look at him. Such lovely luminescent scales.
[sniffs] I know.
And your expertly coiffed mane.
Oh, I know, I know.
Your fabulous manicure.
[gasp] It's so true!
All ruined without your beautiful mustache.
It's true, I'm hideous!
I simply cannot let such a crime against fabulosity go uncorrected.
[yelp] What did you do that for?
Rarity, what are you-
[moans] Oh-hohohoho! My mustache. How wonderful.
You look smashing.
Oh, Rarity, your beautiful tail...
Oh. It's fine, my dear. Short tails are in this season. Besides, it'll grow back.
So would the mustache.
[gasp] We can cross now. Let's go. Ah!
Allow me.
There it is, the ruin that holds The Elements of Harmony. We made it!
Twilight, wait for us!
We're almost there. Whoa!
What's with you and falling off cliffs today?
[sighs] Now what?
Duh.
Oh yeah.
Rainbow...
Who's there?
Rainbow...
I ain't scared of you! Show yourself!
We've been eagerly awaiting the arrival of the best flyer in Equestria.
Who?
Why, you, of course.
Really?! I mean... Oh yeah, me. Hey, uh, you wouldn't mind telling the Wonderbolts that, would ya? 'cause I've been trying to get into that group for like, ever.
No, Rainbow Dash. We want you to join us, The Shadowbolts. We're the greatest aerial team in the Everfree Forest, and soon we will be the greatest in all Equestria, but first, we need a captain. The most magnificent-
Yep.
Swiftest-
Yes.
Bravest flyer in all the land.
Yes, [chuckle] it's all true.
We need... you.
WOOHOO! Sign me up. Just let me tie this bridge real quick and then we have a deal.
No! It's them or us.
Rainbow, what's taking so long? Oh no. Rainbow! Don't listen to them.
Well?
You... Thank you! For the offer, I mean, but I'm afraid I have to say no.
See? I'd never leave my friends hangin'.
Whoa.
Come on, Twilight. Isn't this what you've been waitin' for?
The Elements of Harmony, we've found them. Careful, careful!
One, two, three, four... There's only five!
Where's the sixth?
The book said: when the five are present, a spark will cause the sixth Element to be revealed.
What in the hay is that supposed to mean?
I'm not sure, but I have an idea. Stand back. I don't know what will happen.
Come on now, y'all. She needs to concentrate.
Aah!
Twilight!
The Elements!
Twilight, where are you?
Look!
Come on!
[gasp] Hmph!
You're kidding. You're kidding, right?
[groan] Just one spark. Come on, come on. Aah!
No, no!
[gasp] But... where's the sixth Element?!
[gasp] You think you can destroy The Elements of Harmony just like that? Well, you're wrong, because the spirits of The Elements of Harmony are right here.
What?
Applejack, who reassured me when I was in doubt, represents the spirit of... honesty! Fluttershy, who tamed the manticore with her compassion, represents the spirit of... kindness! Pinkie Pie, who banished fear by giggling in the face of danger, represents the spirit of... laughter! Rarity, who calmed a sorrowful serpent with a meaningful gift represents the spirit of... generosity! And Rainbow Dash, who could not abandon her friends for her own heart's desire represents the spirit of... loyalty! The spirits of these five ponies got us through every challenge you threw at us.
You still don't have the sixth Element! The spark didn't work!
But it did! A different kind of spark. I felt it the very moment I realized how happy I was to hear you, to see you, how much I cared about you. The spark ignited inside me when I realized that you all... are my friends! You see, Nightmare Moon, when those Elements are ignited by the... the spark, that resides in the heart of us all, it creates the sixth element: the element of... magic!
Nooo! Nooo!
Ugh, my head.
Everypony okay?
Oh, thank goodness.
Why Rarity, it's so lovely.
I know! I'll never part with it again.
No. Your necklace. It looks just like your cutie mark.
What? Ooh. So does yours.
Look at mine! Look at mine!
Aw yeah.
Gee, Twilight! I thought you were just spoutin' a lot of hooey, but I reckon we really do represent the elements of friendship.
Indeed you do.
[gasps] Princess Celestia.
Twilight Sparkle, my faithful student. I knew you could do it.
But... you told me it was all an old pony tale.
I told you that you needed to make some friends, nothing more. I saw the signs of Nightmare Moon's return, and I knew it was you who had the magic inside to defeat her, but you could not unleash it until you let true friendship into your heart. Now if only another will as well. Princess Luna!
It has been a thousand years since I have seen you like this. Time to put our differences behind us. We were meant to rule together, little sister.
Sister?
Will you accept my friendship?
Whoa!
I'm so sorry! I missed you so much, big sister!
I've missed you, too.
[blows her nose] [sobs] Hey, you know what this calls for?
A party!
Why so glum, my faithful student? Are you not happy that your quest is complete and you can return to your studies in Canterlot?
That's just it. Just when I learned how wonderful it is to have friends, I have to leave them.
Spike, take a note, please. I, Princess Celestia, hereby decree that the unicorn Twilight Sparkle shall take on a new mission for Equestria. She must continue to study the magic of friendship. She must report to me her findings from her new home in Ponyville.
Oh thank you, Princess Celestia! I'll study harder than ever before.
Isn't this exciting? Are you excited cause I'm excited I've never been so excited, well, except for the time that I went [deep gasp] but I mean really-
No problem at all, Applejack. I'm glad the goal is lunchtime. All this hard work is making me hungry.
I know, right?
Ooh-wee, Spike. You've been lounging on my back all morning while we worked.
Exactly. You two are taking so long, I missed snack-time.
[stomach grumbles] [laughs nervously] Eh, I guess we better get some food.
Nope. Worm. A-ha!
Oh Spike, that looks delicious.
Spike.
It's a letter from Princess Celestia.
[clears throat] Hear ye, hear ye. Her Grand Royal Highness, Princess Celestia of Equestria, is pleased to announce the Grand Galloping Gala to be held in the magnificent capital city of Canterlot, on the 21st day of, eh, yadda yadda yadda, cordially extends an invitation to Twilight Sparkle plus one guest.
[gasp] The Grand Galloping Gala!
Woo-hoo!
[burp] Look, two tickets.
Wow, great! I've never been to the gala. Have you, Spike?
No, and I plan to keep it that way. I don't want any of that girly frilly frou-frou nonsense.
Aw, come on Spike. A dance would be nice.
Nice? It's a heap good more than just nice. I'd love to go. Land sakes, if I had an apple stand set up, ponies would be chowin' our tasty vittles 'til the cows came home. Do you have any idea how much business I could drum up for Sweet Apple Acres? Why, with all that money, we could do a heap of fixin' up 'round here. We could replace that saggy old roof, and Big McIntosh could replace that saggy old plow, and Granny Smith could replace that saggy old hip.
Why, I'd give my left hind leg to go to that gala.
Oh, well in that case, would you like to--
Whoa! [crash] Ugh. Are we talking about the Grand Galloping Gala?
Rainbow Dash. You told me you were too busy to help me harvest apples. What were you busy doing? Spyin'?
No, I was busy napping, and I just happened to hear that you have an extra ticket?
Yeah, but--
YES! This is so awesome. The Wonderbolts perform at the Grand Galloping Gala every year. I can see it now. Everyone would be watching the sky. Their eyes riveted on the Wonderbolts, but then in would fly Rainbow Dash!
I would draw their attention with my Super Speed Strut.
Then, I would mesmerize 'em with my Fantastic Filly Flash. And for my grand finale, the Buccaneer Blaze! The ponies would go wild!
The Wonderbolts would insist that my signature moves be incorporated into their routine, and then welcome me as their newest member.
Hold on just one pony pickin' minute here. [spit] I asked for that ticket first.
So? That doesn't mean you own it.
Oh, yeah? Well I challenge you to a hoof-wrestle. Winner gets the ticket.
Girls, these are my tickets, I'll decide who gets it, thank you very much. Whoever has the best reason to go should get the ticket, don't you think?
Drummin' up business for the farm?
A chance to audition for the Wonderbolts?
Money t' fix Granny's hip.
Living the dream.
Oh my, those were all pretty good reasons, aren't they? [stomach rumbles] [chuckles] Listen to that, I am starving. I don't know about you, but I can't make important decisions on an empty stomach, so I'll, uh, think about it over lunch and get back to you two, okay?
So, who you gonna give the ticket to, Twilight?
I don't know Spike, but I really can't think straight when I'm hungry, so where should we eat?
[crash] Gah! Bats! Bats on my face! Help! Wait, these aren't... tickets to the Grand Galloping Gala?! It's the most amazing incredible tremendous super-fun wonderful terrifically humongous party in all of Equestria! I've always always always wanted to go!
Oh the Grand Galloping Gala is the best place for me Oh the Grand Galloping Gala is the best place for me Hip hip Hooray! It's the best place for me For Pinkie...
With decorations like streamers and fairy-lights and pinwheels and piñatas and pin-cushions. With goodies like sugar cubes and sugar canes and sundaes and sun-beams and sarsaparilla. And I get to play my favorite-est of favorite fantabulous games like Pin the Tail on the Pony!
Oh the Grand Galloping Gala is the best place for me Oh the Grand Galloping Gala is the best place for me 'Cause it's the most galarrific superly-terrific gala ever In the whole galaxy Wheee!!
Oh thank you, Twilight, it's the most wonderful-est gift ever.
Um, actually--
[gasp] Are these what I think they are?
Uh--
Yes, yes, yes! Twilight's taking me to the Grand Galloping Gala in Canterlot.
The gala? I design ensembles for the gala every year, but I've never had the opportunity to attend. Oh, the society, the culture, the glamour! It's where I truly belong, and where I'm destined to meet him.
Him! ... Who?
Him. I would stroll through the gala, and everyone would wonder, "Who is that mysterious mare?" They would never guess that I was just a simple pony from little old Ponyville. Why, I would cause such a sensation that I would be invited for an audience with Princess Celestia herself, and the princess would be so taken with the style and elegance that she would introduce me to him, her nephew: the most handsome, eligible unicorn stallion in Canterlot. Our eyes would meet, our hearts would melt. Our courtship would be magnificent. He would ask for my hoof in marriage, and of course I would say, "Yes!" We would have a royal wedding, befitting a princess, which is [giggles] what I would become upon marrying him, the stallion of my dreams.
Twilight, I simply cannot believe you would invite Pinkie Pie so she can... party, and prevent me from meeting my true love. How could you? Hmph.
Hey!
[gasp] Angel, these are perfect.
Uh, listen guys, I haven't decided who to give the extra ticket to.
You haven't?
Um, excuse me, Twilight. I would just like to ask, I mean, if it would be all right, if you haven't given it to someone else--
You? You want to go to the gala?
Oh, no. I mean, yes, or, actually, kind of. You see, it's not so much the Grand Galloping Gala as it is the wondrous private gated garden that surrounds the dance. The flowers are said to be the most beautiful and fragrant in all of Equestria. For the night of the gala, and that night alone, would they all be in bloom... and that's just the flora! Don't get me started on the fauna. There's loons and toucans and bitterns, oh my! Hummingbirds that can really hum, and buzzards that can really buzz. White-blue jays, and red jays, and green jays, pink jays and pink flamingos!
Gee, Fluttershy, it sounds... beautiful...?
Wait just a minute.
Rainbow Dash! Were you following me?
No. I mean, yes. I mean, maybe. Look, it doesn't matter. I couldn't risk a goody-four-shoes like you giving that ticket away to just anybody.
Wait just another minute.
Applejack, were you following me too?
No. I was followin' this one to make sure she didn't try any funny business. Still trying to take mah ticket.
Your ticket?
But Twilight's taking me.
QUIET!
And then I said, "Oatmeal, are you craz--" oh.
Girls, there's no use in arguing.
But Twilight-
Eh! This is my decision, and I'm gonna make it on my own, and I certainly can't think straight with all this noise... [stomach rumbles] not to mention hunger. Now go on, shoo.
And don't worry, I'll figure this out... somehow.
Have you made your decision?
I CAN'T DECIDE!
Twilight, he just wants to take your order.
Oh. I would love a daffodil and daisy sandwich.
Do you have any rubies? No? Okay. I'll have the hay fries, extra crispy.
What do you think, Spike?
I think we have to try another restaurant. I mean, I like grass just fine, but would it hurt anybody to offer some gemstones?
I mean about the Gala and the ticket and who I should take.
Oh. You're still on that?
Spike, listen. How do I choose? And when I do choose, will the other four be mad at me? I mean, I could give up my ticket and give away two, but that would still leave three disappointed ponies. What if I--
Ah, your food.
Oh thank you. This looks so good. I'm sure everything will be much clearer once I eat.
Em, madam? Are you going to eat your food in ze rain?
It's not raining... What's going on?
Hi there, best friend forever I've ever ever had. Enjoying the sunny weather?
Rainbow Dash, what are you doing?
Whaddya mean? I just saw the smartest, most generous pony about to get rained on, so I thought I'd kick a hole in the clouds to keep her dry so she could dine in peace, that's all.
Rainbow, you're not trying to get extra consideration for the extra ticket by doing me extra special favors, are you?
Me? No no no, of course not.
Uh-huh.
Seriously, I'd do it for anypony. [gulp] Heh heh, eh.
Rainbow, I am not comfortable accepting unwanted favors, so I'd appreciate it if you close up that rain cloud right now.
Twilight, it's raining.
No, really?
Come with me before you catch a cold.
Heh heh, oops, sorry.
Oh no, it's quite all right. After all, we are... the best of friends, are we not? And you know what the best of friends do?
Uh...
Makeovers!
Ugh, Rarity, ow, this really isn't fixing it. I mean, thank you but, ooh, that's too tight.
There. Oh, you're simply darling.
Uh, yeah, it is kinda pretty, isn't it?
And you. Oh Spike, I have a dandy little outfit for the dashing gent.
D-ah, ow, oh, hey, wow, watch it, whoa!
[giggles] Oh, Spike.
Now you just need a hat.
Ugh, I told you, I don't want any part of this girly gala gunk. See you back at the library.
[laughs] Oh, who needs him anyway. This is all about you, and how fabulous you'll look at the Grand Galloping Gala.
Wait, the Grand--
[gasp] And oh, my goodness, what a coincidence. I happen to have an ensemble of my own that matches yours to a T. We would be the belles of the ball, you and I. Everyone would be clamoring for our attention. All eyes would be on us, and then everyone would finally know, the most beautiful, most talented, most sophisticated pony in all of Equestria is Rarity the unicorn. Ah, [nervous laughter] and Twilight Sparkle, of course.
I see what's going on. You're just buttering me up so I give you the extra ticket. Well it's not gonna work. You're going to have to wait for my decision just like everyone else. Now if you'll excuse me, I've been trying all day just to get some lunch.
Did somepony say lunch?
You've got to be kidding me!
I got apple pie, apple fritters, apple tarts, apple dumplings, apple crisps, apple crumblers, and apple Brown Betty. Uh, the dessert, not my auntie. What do you say there, best friend?
Is that a yes?
No. No. I don't know who I'm giving the ticket to, and all these favors aren't making it any easier to decide. In fact, I'm less sure now than I was this morning. Ugh!
So, that's a maybe?
Ugh, I never thought being showered with favors would be so aggravating.
[gasp] Fluttershy, not you too?
Oh, well, hello Twilight. I hope you don't mind, but we're all doing a little spring cleaning for you.
It's summer.
Oh, well, better late than never, right? It was Angel's idea.
You're not doing this for the ticket, are you?
Oh no, I'm doing this because you're my very best friend. Right, Angel? Oh, yes, we are just doing this for the ticket.
No, no, no! Well, this was all very nice of you and Angel, but I'm not accepting any extra favors until I've made my final decision, so I'm going to have to ask you to leave.
SURPRISE!
Twilight is my bestest friend Whoopie, whoopie!
Pinkie...
She's the cutest, smartest, all around best pony, pony!
Pinkie.
I bet if I throw a super-duper fun party, party!
Pinkie!
She'll give her extra ticket to the Gala to me!
PIIINKIIIE!!
Yes, Twilight?
At least the other ponies tried to be subtle about the ticket.
Wait, what ticket? What gala?
Oh, you didn't know? Twilight has an extra ticket to the Grand Galloping Gala!
Ponies, The Grand Galloping Gala?!
Would you like any help with your gardening?
I have a cartload of extra carrots.
What are we gonna do?
We're... gonna... run!
Ugh... Warn me next time you're gonna do that.
I didn't even know it was gonna happen. Now quick, lock the doors. Yaaaargh! I can't decide, I just can't decide. It's important to all of you and I just can't stand to disappoint any of you, and giving me gifts and doing me favors won't make any difference, because you're all my friends and I wanna make you all happy and I can't, I just can't!
Twilight, sugar, I didn't mean to put so much pressure on you, and if it helps, I don't want the ticket anymore. You can give it to somepony else. I won't feel bad, I promise.
Me too. I feel just awful that I made you feel so awful.
And me too. It's no fun upsetting your friends.
Twilight, it was unfair of me to try to force you as I did.
Yes! That means the ticket is mine. Ha ha, [sing-song voice] I got the ticket, I got the ticket-- you know, I haven't perfected my signature moves for the Wonderbolts anyway. I don't need that ticket either.
We all got so gun-ho about going to the gala that we couldn't see how un-gun-ho we were making you.
We're sorry, Twilight.
Spike, take down a note. Dear Princess Celestia,
I've learned that one of the joys of friendship is sharing your blessings, but when there's not enough blessings to go around, having more than your friends can make you feel pretty awful. So, though I appreciate the invitation, I will be returning both tickets to the Grand Galloping Gala.
What?!
If my friends can't all go, I don't wanna go either.
Twilight, you don't have to do that.
Nope. I've made up my mind. Spike, you can send the letter now.
Now you won't get to go to the gala either.
It's okay, girls. I couldn't possibly enjoy myself without my best friends there with me, so I would rather not go at all.
Hgh... hgh... urk... urk...
Well wallop my withers, Spike. Isn't that just like a boy? Can't handle the least bit of sentiment.
Whoa Nelly!
A letter from the princess? That was fast.
"My faithful student Twilight,
Why didn't you just say so in the first place?" Six tickets to the Grand Galloping Gala.
Now we can all go.
Allow us to treat you to dinner.
What a great way to apologize.
And to celebrate. Come on everyone, the cupcakes are on me.
Boy howdy! I got my work cut out for me. That there is the biggest bumper crop o' apples I ever laid eyes on.
Eeyup. Too big for you to handle on your own.
Come on, big brother! You need to rest up and get yourself better. I haven't met an apple orchard yet that I can't handle. Oops, sorry. I'll take a bite out of this job by day's end.
Biting off more than you can chew is just what I'm afraid of.
Are you sayin' my mouth is makin' promises my legs can't keep?
Eeyup.
Why of all the... This is your sister Applejack, remember? The loyalest of friends and the most dependable of ponies?
But still only one pony, and one pony plus hundreds o' apple trees just doesn't add up to...
Well I better get kickin'. These apples aren't gonna shake themselves outta the trees. Hey! Oh no.
STAMPEDE!
Stampede!
[laughter] Hey...! [vibrating] This makes my voice sound silly!
Pinkie Pie, are you crazy?! Run!
Everypony calm down. There is no need to panic.
But Mayor, whatever shall we do?
Look there!
YEEHAW!
Move aside, Winona. Put 'em up, girl!
Attagirl. [grunts] Yee haw!
Whoaaa. Hooie. Now what was that all about?
[moo] [cough] Oh my! Begging your pardon, Applejack, but Moo-riella here saw one of those nasty snakes.
And it just gave us all the willies, don'tcha know.
I completely understand. Just next time, try and steer clear of Ponyville.
We certainly will, Applejack. So long, Winona!
Yee haw!
Yee haw! Ride 'em, cowpony!
Applejack was just... just...
Appletastic!
Exactly. We must do something to thank Applejack for single-hoofedly saving the town.
I know.
A party!
We all ready?
Just one last thing. Now we're ready.
Is Applejack all set?
Actually, I haven't seen her all week.
Not since the stampede.
But she'll be here for sure. Applejack is never late.
Welcome, everypony! Today we are here to honor a pony we can always count on to help in matters great and small. A pony whose contributions to--
Did you see Applejack's slick moves out there? What an athlete. This week she's gonna help me with my new flying trick, and I know it's gonna be so awesome.
Exactly. And...
This week, I get to run Sugarcube Corner for the first time.
What does that have to do with Applejack?
Oh. Applejack, one of the best bakers ever, is gonna help me. Applejack makes everything great, so free samples for everypony!
Oh-kay, that's great. Now if I could just make a point without being inter--
Twilight?
--rupted.
Twilight, I'm so sorry, but I just wanted to mention that Applejack is also helping me this week with the official bunny census, where we count up all the new baby bunnies that were born this season. She's gonna help gather them using her wonderful herding skills.
Anyone else? Anyone? No? Well then, as I was trying to say... Urgh! Never mind.
Ah-ahem. And so, with no further ado, it is my privilege to give the prize, Pony of Ponyville Award, to our beloved guest of honor, a pony of the utmost trustworthiness, reliability, and integrity. Ponyville's most capable and dependable friend: Applejack!
Cool! Way to go Applejack, that was awesome! I mean-- heh.
Ah-ahem.
Awkward.
I'm here. I'm here. [yawn] [sigh] Sorry I'm late--whoa--I was just... whoa... Did I get your tail? Miss Mayor. Thank you kindly for this here... award thingy. [yawn] It's so bright and shiny and, heh, heh heh, I sure do look funny heh. Ooo-ooo.
Woo-ooo.
Ooo-ooo.
Okay. Well, thank you Applejack for saving us from that scary stampede, and always being there for everypony.
[yawn] Yeah. I like helping the ponyfolks and [yawn] and stuff. [snore] Oh, uh, yeah. Uh, Thanks.
Was it just me, or did Applejack seem a little--
Tired?
Dizzy?
Messy? Well, did you see her mane?
She seemed fine to me. Woo! Woo!
Hmm.
[grunts] [sigh] Phew. [gasp] O-oah.
What on Earth is that pony doing?
Whoops.
Hey Applejack!
Applejack.
Applejack. AppleJACK!
Oh, howdy, Twilight.
What is all this?
It's Applebuck season. Whoa.
Applewhat season?
Neh, It's what the Apple family calls harvestin' time. We gather all the apples from the trees so we can sell 'em.
But why are you doing it all alone?
'cause Big McIntosh hurt himself.
What about all those relatives I've met when I first came to Ponyville? Can't they help?
[sigh] They were just here for the Apple family reunion. They actually live all over Equestria and are busy harvestin' their own orchards. So, uh, I'm on my own. Which means, I should really get back to work. Ahem... hint hint? Get back to work?
Fine.
Could you step aside, Twilight?
I just did. Applejack, you don't look so good.
Eh, don't any of you three worry none, I'm just fine and dandy. Whoa.
Do you... want some help?
Help? No way, no how.
But there's no way you can do it all on your own.
Is that a challenge?
Uhm... no?
Well, I'm gonna prove to you that I can do it! Now if you'll excuse me, I've got apples to buck.
There you are.
[yawn] I'm a mite sorry, Rainbow. I was busy applebuckin' and I guess ah, I closed my eyes for a second and, when I woke up, I was late. Now, what's this new trick a' yours?
See this contraption?
Uh... Yeah.
Well, I'm gonna stand on one end, then you're gonna jump down from that platform, launching me into the air faster than I can take off on my own. Once I'm in the air, I'm gonna do some amazing flips and spins that are sure to impress the Wonderbolts.
Isn't that a mite dangerous?
Pfft, Heh, not for a pony who can fly.
Well, all right-y then. Oh my.
Ready? One... two... THREE!
Umm... maybe I wasn't clear. You're supposed to land on the other end.
Applejack, what the hay is going on? I mean, I thought I was working with Ponyville's best athlete!
You are. I'm okay. Really. I-I have an idea. Watch this. [groan] Ta da! Oh... Maybe not. Okay, one more try. I'm sure to get it this time.
Ugh!
Heh heh... Here I go!
Wait, Applejaaaaack!
You're welcome!
Can I help you?
I think somepony else needs your help.
Applejack?
Yep.
Ow!
Applejack, can we talk? Applejack, can we talk?
Can bees squawk?! I don't think so.
No. Can we talk?
Twenty stalks? Bean or celery?
No! I need to talk to you.
You need to walk to the zoo? Well, who's stoppin' you?
I need to talk to you!
Oh! Well why didn't you say so? What you wanna talk about?
Rainbow Dash dropped in to see me today.
That's quite neighborly of her.
Yes, except that she crashed onto my balcony after you launched her into the air.
Oh, yeah. I wasn't feeling quite myself this morning.
Because you're working too hard and you need help.
What? Kelp? I don't need kelp. I don't even like seaweed.
HELP! You need HELP!
Nothin' doin', Twilight. I'm gonna prove to you, t'everypony, that I can do this on my own. Ow! Now if you'll excuse me, I've gotta go help Pinkie Pie.
Ugh.
Mrs. Now Pinkie Pie, are you sure you're up for baking the muffins and running the store this afternoon?
Yes siree bob, Mrs. Cake. Plus, I have Ponyville's prized pony to help me out. Why, she's the best baker ever. Right, Applejack?
Mr. No? You're not the best baker ever?
WHAT? Oh no! I mean, don't you fret. I can bake anything from fritters to pies in the blink of an eye.
Mrs. [sigh] All right. Well, see you later, girls!
Stop with the shakin', it's time to get bakin'.
All right-y! I'll get the sugar and the eggs. Can you get me some chocolate chips?
Eh, uh, whu, what was that?
Chocolate chips.
Chips... got it. Tater chips, a little salty and dry, okie-dokie. What next?
Baking soda.
Soda. Perfect. That'll get the tater chips nice and wet. Now what?
A cup of flour.
A cup o' sour? Well, lemons are sure sour. One cup o' sour, comin' up. Anything else, Pinkie?
One last thing. Wheat germ.
Wheat worms? Oh, that must be fancy talk for earthworms.
Now that's gonna be delicious.
If you say so.
Free muffin sample spectacular!
Yeah! Muffin spectacles! Get 'em while they're hot.
We came as soon as we heard.
Oh thank you, Twilight. We need all the help we can get.
Oh no! What happened?
It was a mishap with some of the baked goods.
Applejack.
[chomp] Want one?
Applejack, we need to talk.
Wha, huh? Oh, it's you, Twilight. [yawn] I know what you're gonna say, but the answer is still no.
Not to upset your applecart, but you need help.
Hardy har. [groan] And no I don't.
Here, let me help.
Help? No thanks. [groan] A little more... [groan] Little... [grunt] There. I'll prove that this apple can handle these apples. Come on [grunt] apples [grunt] fall off [grunt].
AJ, think you're beating a dead... tree.
I knew that.
Actually, Applejack, I had something else to talk to you about. I just came back from Ponyville Urgent Care and--
You know, I'm a little busy to get lectured right now, Twilight.
But if you'd just let me help--
Ugh. No, no, NO! How many times do I gotta say it? I don't need no help from nopony!
Ugh. That pony is stubborn as a mule.
No offense.
None taken.
Oh Applejack! Thank you so much for offering your herding skills for the annual rabbit roundup.
Ugh. Why are we doin' this?
Well, lots of new baby bunnies have been born, so it's my job to get a count of all the new families.
Fine. Can we just get on with it?
Certainly, but remember, these are bunnies we're dealing with, not cows. They're a timid bunch and need to be treated gently.
I do NOT need any direction on corrallin' critters. Right, Winona?
Okay, little bunnies! I need you to all gather here in the middle.
That's right! Let's go, bunnies. In the center. Hop to it. Swell. Just swell. Put 'em up, Winona!
Applejack! Winona! Stop! You're scaring them.
We know what we're doin'. Get along, little bunnies.
Oh no.
STAMPEDE!
[yelps] Stampede!
The horror, the horror.
It was awful.
A disaster. A horrible, horrible disaster.
I don't get it.
Our gardens, destroyed.
Every last flower, devoured.
By... by... THEM!
Oh my. Oh... Please stop, little bunnies. Oh no! Please, let's go home. Oh my goodness.
All right. Enough is enough.
Must [gasp] keep [gasp] buckin'... just [gasp] a few [gasp] more. Must finish harvestin'.
All right, Applejack. Your applebucking hasn't just caused you problems, it's over-propelled Pegasus', practically poisoned plenty of ponies, and terrorized bushels of brand new bouncing baby bunnies. I don't care what you say, you. Need. Help.
[grunts] Ha! No, I don't. Look, I did it. I harvested the entire Sweet Apple Acres without your help. How d'ya like them apples?
Um, how do you like them apples?
Applejack. Applejack.
Huh?
Oh, good, you're okay. Now Applejack, I completely respect the Apple family ways. You're always there to help anypony in need, so maybe you can put a little of your stubborn pride aside and allow your friends to help you.
Okay, Twilight.
I am not taking "no" for an answer--what?
Yes, Twilight. Yes, please. I could really use your help.
Dear Princess Celestia,
My friend Applejack is the best friend a pony could ever have, and she's always there to help anypony. The only trouble is, when she needs help, she finds it hard to accept it, so while friendship is about giving of ourselves to friends, it's also about accepting what our friends have to offer.
Your faithful student,
Twilight Sparkle
How about y'all take a little break? I got some fine apple juice waitin' for ya! [sigh] Girls, I can't thank you enough for this help. I was acting a bit stubborn.
A bit?
Okay. A mite stubborn, and I'm awful sorry. Now, I know the town gave me the Prized Pony award, but the real award is having you five as my friends.
Phew! That applebucking sure made me hungry.
And I've got the perfect treat.
Eeew... Spike, I threw those all away. Where'd you get them?
From the trash.
[in unison] EW!
Just a little nibble? Come on.
Ew! Gross!
Hoof-biting action overload! She was like a stunt superstar, flying higher and higher, and then Rainbow Dash swooped down--swoosh--and right before she hit the ground--shoom-she pulled up--vrrrmmm!
Uh-huh.
And then she looped around and around like whoo whoo whoo whoo whoo whoo whoo!
Uh-huh. Phew.
Rainbow Dash!
[grunt] Pinkie Pie? Not again.
Rainbow Dash.
Not now, Pinkie Pie.
But, but Rainbow Dash–
I'm in the middle of something.
But–
I was gonna tell you to look out for that mountain.
[humming] Hi, I'm looking for Rainbow Dash. Have you seen her? Hi there, have you seen Rainbow Dash? Okay, thanks anyway. Twilight, have you seen Rainbow Dash anywhere?
Isn't she right up there?
Rainbow Dash.
Phew. That was close.
Hi!
Aah!
Hi again.
Aah!
Pfeh. I need a favor, Rainbow Dash.
Waaa--oh, forget it.
I totally promise it'll be totally fun.
[sighs] Okay.
Over to the right. No no, a little to the left. Oh wait, back to the right. Now a little leftish while staying rightly. Stop. Hmm. Maybe a few inches to the south. Now a couple centimeters north. Okay. One more smidgimeter to the--
Pinkie Pie!
Uh, I mean, perfect. Now wait for my signal.
[laughing] Oh Rainbow Dash, we startled Spike into getting the hiccups.
[chuckles] Good one, Pinkie [hiccup] Pie. [hiccup] You're always pulling a fast one [hiccup] on me. [hiccup] Nnaa--
Oh no, you're not hurt are you?
Ne--[hiccup]--eh, don't be [hiccup] silly, dragons are [hiccup] fire-proof.
Oh, okay, good.
I wish the same thing [hiccup] were true with scrolls.
I can think of one thing.
I didn't take you for a prankster, Pinkie Pie.
You know Pinkie Pie, you're not as annoying as I thought.
You wanna hang out?
A simple nod would do.
Mmm-hmm.
Is she even home?
I don't know. This is gonna be gold.
There she is.
Aaa-choo!
Hmm?
[gasp] Land sakes!
Is someone over there? Who're we gonna squirt? Who're we gonna squirt?
[chuckles] Fluttershy.
WHAT? [spits] Nononononono, we can't prank Fluttershy, I mean, she's so sensitive. It'll hurt her feelings, even our most harmless prank.
Yeah, you're right. [raspberry] Huh. We need another victim who's made of tougher stuff. So, who's it gonna be?
Oh, [chuckles] I've got someone in mind. [chuckles] The toughest around.
Oh, awesome. Who? Who? Do I know them?
[giggles] Oh, yes. [giggles] You're very close.
[chuckles] Good one, Pinkie Pie.
Ridiculous.
[blows party hooter] Rise and shine Rainbow Dash! It's a brand new day and we got a lot of pranking to-- Ooh.
Mornin', Pinks. Gilda, this is my gal pal, Pinkie Pie.
Hey. What's up?
Pinkie, this is my griffon friend, Gilda.
What's a griffon?
She's half-eagle, half-lion.
And all awesome. Raa. Heh-haa. Yeah, that's right.
Gilda's my best friend from my days at Junior Speedster flight camp. Hey, remember the chant?
Sha, they made us recite it every morning, I'll never get that lame thing out of my head.
Sooo...
Ugh. Only for you, Dash.
Junior Speedsters are our lives, Sky-bound soars and daring dives Junior Speedsters, it's our quest, To someday be the very best!
[laughs] Oh that was awesome, and it gave me a great idea for a prank. Gilda, you game?
Huh. Well, I groove on a good prank as much as the next griffon. But Dash, you promised me we'd get a flying session in this morning.
Yeah, uh, well, Pinkie Pie, you don't mind, do you? Gilda just got here. We'll catch up with you later.
Whoa, that was sweet. Just like old times.
Yeah, only faster. So now what?
Hey there.
Huh?
It's later. And I caught up.
Pinkie Pie, you are so random.
Hey Dash, think you got enough gas left to beat me to that cloud?
A race? You are so on.
One, two, three, go.
Hey!
I win.
As if. I won, dude.
No way.
Yes way.
Oh, come on, I was way ahead of you.
Uh, I don't think so.
Oh Geez, dream on.
Remember back in camp? I–
There is no way you beat me.
Whatever.
Wow guys, that was really close, but I think Rainbow Dash beat you by a teeny weeny itty bitty hair, or a teeny weeny itty bitty feather.
Hah, see? Good thing Pinkie Pie's here to keep you honest, G.
Okay... Dash, last one to that cloud up there is a gnarly dragon egg. Go! [To Pinkie Pie] I think the high altitude is making you dizzy.
Wait, guys! Oh wow, you guys almost got away from me that time.
So, Dash, got any new moves in your tricktionary, or are you 100% old school?
New moves? Heh, sit back G, this is gonna take a while.
Hey Pinkie, c'mere.
Yeah?
Don't you know how to take get lost for an answer? Dash doesn't need to hang with a dweeb like you now that I'm around. You're dorkin' up the skies, Stinkie Pie, so make like a bee and BUZZ OFF.
[gasp] Whaaa-aaa–
Try matching that. Hey, where's Pinkie Pie and her crazy contraption?
Eh, she left. Something about being as busy as a bee.
Hmph!
So Pinkie Pie, are you sure that this friend of Rainbow Dash is really so mean?
Um, yeah. She keeps stealing Rainbow Dash away, she pops my balloons, and she told me to buzz off. I've never met a griffon this mean. Well, actually, I've never met a griffon at all, but I bet if I had, she wouldn't have been as mean and grumpy as Gilda.
You know what I think, Pinkie Pie.
Hmm?
Well, I think... you're jealous.
Jealous?
Green with envy. Well, in your case, pink with envy.
Well, yes. Jealous. Listen Pinkie, I don't want to upset you, but just because Rainbow Dash has another friend doesn't make Gilda a grump. I mean, perhaps it's you, Pinkie, who needs to improve her attitude.
[laughing] That was sweet. Ugh, I gotta take care of a few weather jobs around here. Shouldn't take long. Just, uh, hang out in town and I'll come find ya.
That's cool, I guess. I'm gonna go chow down.
Later.
[sniffs] Aaah! A rattler, a rattler! Run for the hills! Everybody forsake yourselves!
This stuff ain't fresh, dude.
Aw, poor Granny Smith, she didn't know it was a joke. How mean. No, no, I can't misjudge her. It was kind of a funny prank, I guess.
[gasp] I did misjudge her. She's not only a meanie mean-pants, she's also a thief. Nonononono, she might give it back. It's just a joke.
All right little ones, this way, this way. Mama duck, you're free and clear.
Hey.
Please excuse me.
I'm walkin' here.
Oh, um, I'm sorry. I-I-I was just trying to...
[mocking] I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Why don't you just watch where you're going, doofus?
B-b-b-but I... I...
Ugh, please, all these lame ponies are driving me buggy. I gotta bail.
She's a grump, and a thief, and a bully. The meanest kind of mean meanie-pants there is. I can take it, but no one treats Fluttershy like that. No. One. This calls for extreme measures, Pinkie Pie style.
Welcome, welcome. Welcome!
Who's this Gilda I've heard nothing about?
I hear she's an old friend of Rainbow Dash. A griffon, so rare.
You've met Gilda, right? What's she like?
Oh, um, well, I'll tell you later, Twilight.
Welcome. Welcome.
Um, Pinkie Pie, about this party for Gilda. Umm... Do you really think it's a good idea? I mean–
Don't worry your pretty little head about mean old Gilda. Your auntie Pinkie Pie's got it all taken care of.
I'm a year older than you.
Gilda! I'm so honored to throw you one of my signature Pinkie Pie parties, and I really, truly, sincerely, hope you feel welcome here amongst all us pony folk.
Oh Pinkie Pie, the old hoof-shake buzzer. You are a scream.
Yeah [chuckles nervously] uh, good one, Pinkie Pie.
Come on G, I'll introduce you to some of my other friends.
Right behind you Dash. I know what you're up to.
Great.
Rrrh. I know what you're planning.
[giggles] Well, I hope so. This wasn't supposed to be a surprise party.
I mean, I've got my eye on you.
And I got my eye on you. Everyone, I'd like you all to meet Gilda, a long-time, dear friend of Rainbow Dash. Let's honor her and welcome her to Ponyville.
Please help yourself.
Vanilla lemon drops. Don't mind if I do. HOT!
G, the punch.
[gasp] [gulp] Huh?
Well, whaddya know, pepper in the vanilla lemon drops, and the punch served in a dribble glass.
[gulp] [gasp] Yeah, hilarious.
Hey G, look, presents.
Spittin' snakes. Hah, somepony pulled that prank on me last month.
Ha ha. I bet I know who that was.
You do?
Cake time everypony.
Hey, can I blow out the candles?
Why don't we let Gilda blow out the candles, Spike? She is the guest of honor after all.
Ugh.
[laughs] Re-lighting birthday candles, I love that prank. What a classic.
Now, I wonder who could've done that.
Yeah, I wonder.
Mmm, who cares. This cake is amazing.
Spike.
What? It's great, try some.
Hey G, you're not upset about some silly candles, are you?
No way, Dash. Like I said, I'm down with a good prank.
Come on then, let's have some cake.
Hey, I'm watching you. Like a hawk.
Why? Can't you watch me like a griffon?
Hey y'all, it's pin the tail on the pony. Let's play.
Oh, my favorite game. Can I go first? Can I have the purple tail?
Well, I am the guest of honor, and I'll have the purple tail.
Yeah, Gilda should definitely go first. Let's get you blindfolded.
Hey what-- ugh-- what are you doing? Rrrah.
We're spinning you around and around and then you can pin the tail on the pony. Now just walk straight ahead and pin the tail.
[mockingly] Now just walk straight ahead and pin the tail. Hmph, yeah, right. This is another prank, isn't it? I'm going this way.
Wait. The poster is this--
Uh, Gilda? You pinned the tail on the wrong end.
[roar] This is your idea of a good time? I've never met a lamer bunch of dweebs in all my life. And Pinkie Pie, you! You are queen lame-o with your weak little party pranks. Did you really think you could make me lose my cool? Well, Dash and I have ten times as much cool as the rest of you put together. Come on Dash, we're bailing on this pathetic scene. Come on Rainbow Dash. I said, we're leaving.
You know Gilda, I was the one who set up all those weak pranks at this party.
[gasp] What?
Ooh.
So I guess I'm queen lame-o.
Come on, Dash, you're joshing me.
They weren't all meant for you specifically, it was just dumb luck that you set them all off.
I shoulda known, that dribble cup had Rainbow Dash written all over it.
No way. It was Pinkie Pie. She set up this party to trip me up, to make a fool of me.
Me? I threw this party to improve your attitude. I thought a good party might turn that frown upside down.
And you sure didn't need any help making a fool of yourself. You know, this is not how I thought my old friends would treat my new friends. If being cool is all you care about, maybe you should go find some new cool friends someplace else.
Not cool.
Wow, talk about a party pooper.
Wow, what was that about?
Um, what just happened?
Really awkward.
I'm sorry everypony, for bringing Gilda here. I didn't know how rude she was. And Pinkie Pie, I'm really sorry she ruined that awesome party you put on for her.
Hey, if you want to hang out with party poopers, that's your business.
I'd rather hang out with you. No hard feelings?
No hard feelings.
Hey Pinkie. Sorry I accused you of misjudging Gilda. Looks like I'm the one who misjudged you.
It's okay Twilight, even you can't be a super smart smarty smart-pants all the time. Come on everypony, there's still a whole lotta party to finish.
Dearest Princess Celestia,
Today I learned that it's hard to accept when somepony you like wants to spend time with somepony who's not so nice. Though it's impossible to control who your friends hang out with, it is possible to control your own behavior. Just continue to be a good friend. In the end, the difference between a false friend and one who's true will surely come to light.
Your faithful student,
Twilight Sparkle
Dear Twilight Sparkle,
Come on, Twilight. You can do it!
Okay, here goes.
Sorry, Romeo. As attractive and enticing as you look, it's just for practice, and it's gotta go.
Wait! Aw, rats!
Twenty-five, Twilight. Twenty-five different kinds of tricks and counting. I thought unicorns were only supposed to have a little magic that matches their special talents!
True, for ponies whose talents are for things like cooking or singing or math. But what if a unicorn's special talent is magic?
Like you, Twilight, and you know a ton of magic.
Oh, Spike, stop. I'm sure there are lots of ponies right here in Ponyville that know just as much magic as me.
Are you kiddin'? I don't think there's another unicorn in all of Equestria with your kind of ability, Twilight.
Gangway! Comin' through!
Augh! Snips, Snails! What's goin' on?
Wha, haven't you heard?
Whoa!
There's a new unicorn in town!
Yeah! They say that she's got more magical powers than any other unicorn ever!
Really?
Aw, no way, that honor goes to Twilight here.
Where is this unicorn?
Ho, she's in the town square. Come on!
Yeah! [laughter] Come on! Whooo!
Come one, come all! Come and witness the amazing magic of the Great and Powerful Trixie!
Ooh!
Watch in awe as the Great and Powerful Trixie performs the most spectacular feats of magic ever witnessed by pony eyes!
My, my, my! What boasting!
Come on, nopony's as magical as Twi— Twi— Twi— Oh! [clears throat] Hey, Rarity, I, uh— Mustache!
There's nothing wrong with being talented, is there?
Nothin' at all, 'cep'n when someone goes around showin' it off like a school filly with fancy new ribbons.
Just because one has the ability to perform lots of magic does not make one better than the rest of us.
Especially when ya got me around being better than the rest of us. [laughter] Eh, I mean, yeah, uh, magic shmagic. Boo!
Well, well, well, it seems we have some neighsayers in the audience. Who is so ignorant as to challenge the magical ability of the Great and Powerful Trixie? Do they not know that they're in the presence of the most magical unicorn in all of Equestria?
[raspberry] Just who does she think she is?
Yeah! Since we all know that Twilight here is—
Spike! Shhh!
What? What's wrong?
You see the way they reacted to Trixie? I don't want anyone thinking I'm a show-off.
So, "Great and Powerful Trixie". What makes you think you're so awesome, anyway?
Heh, why, only the Great and Powerful Trixie has magic strong enough to vanquish the dreaded ursa major!
Ahh!
What?
No way!
When all hope was lost, the ponies of Hoofington had no one to turn to, but the Great and Powerful Trixie stepped in, and with her awesome magic, vanquished the ursa major and sent it back to its cave deep within the Everfree Forest!
Saw, sweet!
That settles it.
Trixie truly is the most talented, the most magical, the most awesome unicorn in Ponyville.
No, in all of Equestria!
How do you know? You didn't see it! And besides, Twi— [zip!] Mmph! M-mmph!
[laughter] It's true, my enthusiastic little admirers. Trixie is most certainly the best in Ponyville.
Don't believe the Great and Powerful Trixie? [chuckles] Well then, I hereby challenge you, Ponyvillians. Anything you can do, I can do better. Any takers? Anyone? Hmm? Or is Trixie destined to be the greatest equine who has ever lived!?
There's no way I'm going to use my magic now, Spike. Especially since—
Hmm, how about you?
Well, how about it? Hm? Is there anything you can do that the Great and Powerful Trixie can't?
I— I—
Well, little hayseed?
That's it! I can't stand for no more of this!
You show her, AJ!
Can your magical powers do this?
Top that, missy.
Oh ye of little talent. Watch and be amazed at the magic of Trixie!
Whoa! Uh!
Once again, the Great and Powerful Trixie prevails.
There's no need to go struttin' around and showin' off like that.
Oh?
That's my job!
They don't call me "Rainbow" and "Dash" for nothin'!
When Trixie is through, the only thing they'll call you is loser.
Whoa! Whoa! Whoa-a-a-a! [gulp] I think I'm [gulp] gonna be sick.
Seems like anypony with a dash of good sense would think twice before tussling with the Great Trixie.
Ow!
What we need is another unicorn to challenge her. Someone with some magic of her own.
Yeah! A unicorn to show this unicorn who's boss.
A real unicorn to unicorn tussle.
Uh...
Enough. Enough, all of you. I take your hint, but Rarity is above such nonsense. Rainbow Dash and Applejack may behave like ruffians, but Rarity conducts herself with beauty and grace.
Ooo, what's the matter? Afraid you'll get a hair out of place in that rat's nest you call a mane?
Oh, it. Is. On! You may think you're tough with all of your so-called powers, but there's more to magic than your brutish ways. A unicorn needs to be more than just muscle. A unicorn needs to have style.
Ooh!
A unicorn is not a unicorn without grace and beauty.
Rarity won't let Trixie get the best of her! She's strong, she's beautiful, she's—
Quick! I need a mirror! Get me a mirror! What did she do to my hair? I know she did something terrible to my hair!
Nothing.
It's fine.
It's gorgeous.
It's green. What?
Well, I never!
Well Twilight, guess it's up to you. Come on, show her what you're made of.
What do you mean? I'm nothing special.
Yes, you are! You're better than her!
I'm not better than anyone.
Hah! You think you're better than the Great and Powerful Trixie? You think you have more magical talent? Well, come on, show Trixie what you've got. Show us all.
Who, me? I'm just your run-of-the-mill citizen of Ponyville. No powerful magic here. I, uh... I think I hear my laundry calling. Sorry, gotta go.
Twilight?
Ha! Once again, the Great and Powerful Trixie has proven herself to be the most amazing unicorn in all of Equestria. Huh, was there ever any doubt?
Here's your smoothie you asked for, with extra hay, just how you like it.
Mmm, hay.
[sips] Yes?
Ooo, tell us another story, Great and Powerful Trixie.
Yeah, tell us about how you vanquished the ursa major.
Guh! Trixie is far too exhausted from performing feats beyond imagination. Begone with you until morning.
Oh, of course, Great and Powerful Trixie.
Anything you say. We are at your beck and call.
Ah.
What are you two doin'?
Just bringin' the Gee an' Pee Tee a—
The what?
The Great and Powerful Trixie.
Sheesh.
Just bringin' her a smoothie.
How can you fall for her lameness? She's just a show-off. Unlike Twilight, who—
The Great and Powerful Trixie vanquished an ursa major. Can your Twilight claim that?
Oh really? Were you guys actually there?
Well, eh, uh... no, but—
But nothin'. The proof is in the pudding.
[laughs] I like pudding.
Look, unless an ursa major comes waltzing up the street for Trixie to vanquish, I am not gonna believe a word she says, and neither should you!
Hm, an ursa walkin' up the street, hey? Snails! You thinkin' what I'm thinkin'?
Why is it they call it a flea market when they don't really sell fleas?
Yeah, uh... oh, come on!
Twilight, would you put down that book and just listen to me?
Didn't you see how they hated Trixie's bragging, Spike? If I go out there and show off my magic, I run the risk of losing them as friends.
It's not the same thing, Twilight. You'll be using your magic to stand up for your friends!
No, Spike, it's exactly the same.
Come on, Twilight, any one of these tricks, even the teeniest, would be enough to show up Trixie.
I don't want to be seen as a bragger like Trixie.
But you're the best!
Uh. Please, Spike, I said no!
[sighs] If that's the way you want to be, then fine.
Oh, how we gonna find an ursa major when I can't even see my own hoof in front of my face?
Oh, heh. That's better.
Yaaaah!
Yaaaah!
Hey, guys, where ya goin'?
Can't talk now.
Got a major problem!
Yeah, ursa major, to be exact.
Huh?
Trixie!
Twilight!
Trixie thought she said the Great and Powerful Trixie did not want to be disturbed!
[nervous laughter] We— We have a— a tiny problem.
Actually, it's a big one.
What is so important that you cannot wait until morning to disturb Trixie?
Twilight! You've gotta come! Quick!
I already told you, Spike, I don't wanna show up Trixie!
No, you don't understand, it's—
Uh, is that what I think it is?
Majorly.
Great and Powerful Trixie, you've got to vanquish the ursa.
Yeah, vanquish so we can watch.
It took a lot of trouble to get that thing here.
Wait, you brought this here? [gasp] Are you out of your little pony minds?
But, you're the Great and Powerful Trixie.
Yeah, remember? You defeated an ursa major.
Uh, okay. [gulp] Stand back.
Heh. Piece of cake.
Aw, come on, Trixie.
Stop goofin' around and vanquish it, eh?
Well, that was a dud.
Yeah, pfft, come on! Where's all the cool explosions and smoke and stuff like earlier? You know.
Uh-oh.
What's going on?
We brought an ursa to town.
You what!?!
Don't worry, the Great and Powerful Trixie will vanquish it.
I can't.
What!?
Oh, I can't, I never have. No one can vanquish an ursa major. I just made the whole story up to make me look better.
Made it up!?
Nice use of number sixteen.
Golly, dont'cha know?
That's new.
Unbelievable!
That was amazing!
Heavens to Betsy! We knew you had ability, but not that much!
I'm sorry. Please, please don't hate me.
Rainbow Dash, Applejack, Hate you?
Why, whatever do you mean, darling?
Well, I know how much you all hated Trixie's showing off with her magic tricks, and I just thought--
Whoa, whoa, whoa. Magic's got nothing to do with it. Trixie's just a loudmouth.
Most unpleasant.
All hat and no cattle.
So, you don't mind my magic tricks?
Your magic is a part of who you are, sugarcube, and we like who you are. We're proud to have such a powerful, talented unicorn as our friend.
And after whuppin' that ursa's hindquarters, we're even prouder.
You are?
Uh-huh.
Mm-hmm.
Mm-hmm.
Wow, Twilight, how'd you know what to do with that ursa major?
That's what I was doing when you came looking for me. I was so intrigued by Trixie's bragging that I was compelled to do a little reading up on them.
So it is possible to vanquish an ursa major all by yourself?
That wasn't an ursa major. It was a baby, an ursa minor.
That was just a baby?
And it wasn't rampaging. It was just cranky because someone woke it up.
Awww...
Well, if that was an ursa minor, then what's an ursa major like?
You don't wanna know.
Huh. You may have vanquished an ursa minor, but you will never have the amazing, show-stopping ability of the Great and Powerful Trixie!
Why, that little...
Just let her go. Maybe someday she'll learn her lesson. Now, about you two.
Ah [nervous laughter]. Uh, we're sorry that we woke up the ursa minor.
We just wanted to see some awesome magic.
Yeah! And the way you vanquished that ursa minor was awesome!
We deserve whatever punishment you give us.
For starters, you can clean up this mess. And... What do you think, Spike? Should I give them number twenty five?
Oh, twenty five! Yes! And I think I deserve it, too.
Heah?
I think you're right.
Snips, Snails, Sweet!
Dear Princess Celestia,
I have learned a very valuable lesson about friendship: I was so afraid of being thought of as a show-off that I was hiding a part of who I am. My friends helped me realize that it's okay to be proud of your talents, and there are times when it's appropriate to show them off... Especially when you're standing up for your friends.
So, you finally admit that you're the most talented unicorn in all of Ponyville?
Well, yeah, but it's nothing to brag about. So, uh, how did it go with Rarity?
Eh, she didn't go for the mustache.
You know, Spike, that mustache has nothing to do with who you really are. Maybe you should just try being yourself.
Or... Maybe the mustache wasn't enough. Maybe if I had a mustache and a beard?
Uh, not this again!
Okay, imagine me with a nice, long, Fu Manchu type beard. Or maybe a goatee. Oh, no, a soul patch right on my chin!
Oh, goodness. Are you okay?
Are you coughing because there's a carrot stuck in your throat?
Because you need some water?
[gasp] Because of that giant cloud of scary black smoke? I'll take that as a... yes.
Don't be such a scaredy-pony. It's just me, future Equestria ball-bouncing record holder. Three forty six, three forty seven...
This calls for a celebration!
Oh, no, Pinkie Pie, this is no time for celebration. This is a time for panic, for--
Ooo! I'm going to need balloons! One for every pony in Ponyville!
There's-- there's smoke. And-- and where there's smoke, there's fire. And--
Let's see, that's one, two, three, four...
Three hundred fifty four...
Five, six...
Three hundred fifty five, no, wait...
Seven.
Pinkie Pie! Now I have to start over.
We're all going to have to start over, in a new village. 'Cause ours is gonna be--
Hey, Rainbow Dash, wait up!
Oh, please, this is an emergency. I-I need everypony to--
Listen up! Smoke is spreading over all of Equestria.
What? Oh no! That's awful!
That's what I've been trying to--
But don't worry, I've just received a letter from Princess Celestia informing me that it is not coming from a fire.
Oh, thank goodness.
It's coming from a dragon.
A... d-dragon?
What in the name of all things cinnamon swirled is a full-grown dragon doing here in Equestria?
Sleeping.
Applejack, Rainbow Dash, Rarity, Fluttershy, Huh?
According to Princess Celestia, he's taking a nap. His snoring is what's causing all this smoke.
He should really see a doctor. That doesn't sound healthy at all.
Well, at least he's not snoring fire. What are we meant to do about it?
I'll tell you what we're meant to do. Give him the boot. Take that. And that!
We need to encourage him to take a nap somewhere else. Princess Celestia has given us this mission, and we must not fail. If we do, Equestria will be covered in smoke for the next one hundred years.
Hmph. Talk about getting your beauty sleep.
All right everypony, I need you to gather supplies quickly. We've got a long journey ahead of us. Let's meet back here in less than an hour.
Okay, girls, you heard her. The fate of Equestria is in our hooves. Do we have what it takes?
Um, actually...
Raaah!
Yaaa!
[laughter] Oh, I mean, grrr!
Ewww! Much better. Onward!
Let's go!
All right girls, listen up. I'm mapping out the fastest route, but we've all got to keep a good pace if we expect to make it up the mountain by nightfall.
M-m-mountain?
The dragon is in that cave at the very top.
Looks pretty cold up there.
You bet it is. The higher you go, the chillier it gets.
Good thing I brought my scarf.
Ooo! Pretty!
Heh, oh yeah. That'll keep you nice and cozy.
[gulp] Um, excuse me, Twilight? I know you're busy, but...
Uh-huh. Well, we could go this way.
But if I could just have a second...
Uh-huh. No, we want to avoid that.
So, um, I was thinking that, um, maybe I should just stay here in Ponyville.
Uh-huh.
Oh! Good. I'll stay here and--
Wait! You have to come! Your way with wild animals will surely come in handy.
I don't think I--
Oh, and don't worry about your little friends in the meadow. Spike's got it covered while you're gone.
You can count on me! Oooh! Hey! Hey! Wait!
I don't really think he's up to the task. Maybe... But... But... no!
Are you sure you want Fluttershy to come along? I mean, that pony's afraid of her own shadow. She's just going to slow us down.
Oh, she's just a little nervous. Once we get going, I'm sure she'll be fine.
All right girls, move out!
Whoa. What was that?
That is what it sounds like when a dragon snores.
It-- it's so... high!
Well, it is a mountain. I'm going to fly up there and check it out! Wah!
Hold on, now. I think we should all go up together. Safety in numbers and all.
Oh, all right.
I hear the only thing that sparkles more than a dragon's scales are the jewels they use to build their nests. Ooo, if I play my cards right, I might be able to convince him to part with a few!
Girls! This is no laughing matter! Fluttershy, you're the expert on wild creatures. What do you think the dragon will be like? Fluttershy?
Hey! What are you waiting for? An invitation?
Ooo, I think I have one in my bag!
I-it's so... so... steep.
Well, it is a cliff. You could just, oh, I don't know, fly up here?
Come on, Fluttershy, you can do it. Flap those wings!
Ugh.
Uh, we don't have time for this. What are you doing?
I'll need this if I'm going to take her around the mountain another way.
[groan] Around the mountain? That's going to take them forever.
Don't worry, Twi. We'll be there lickety-split.
Whoo-hoo! I win again!
Ugh. That's thirty-five games in a row. Best of seventy-one?
Told you it was going to take them forever.
Your turn, Fluttershy.
But... it's so... wide.
Come on, Fluttershy, we should be much farther along by now.
You could just leap on over.
I--
I don't know.
There's nothing to be afraid of. It's just a hop, skip and a jump. See?
It's not very far Just move your little rump You can make it if you try with a hop, skip and jump
We don't have time for this.
A hop, skip and jump, Just move your little rump, A hop, skip and jump, A hop, skip and jump, A hop, skip and jump, A hop skip and jump, A hop skip and jump!
O-okay. Here I go. A hop.
That's it.
You've got it.
Almost there.
Skip.
Just don't look down.
Ugh.
I guess I forgot to jump.
[whispers] Let's keep it down. According to my map, we're entering an avalanche zone. The smallest peep could cause a huge rock slide.
An... an ava... ava...
Shhh!
AVALA--!
Oh no! Help! Ooh!
Oh my! [stops coughing] Everypony okay?
Thanks to you I am.
Eugh. Blech.
Whoo-hoo! Let's do it again!
Uh! This is why a girl always packs extra accessories. Oh, please tell me I brought the tiara that goes with this.
Uh, think we got bigger problems than making sure our hair bows match our horseshoes.
[sigh] Sorry.
Aw, no big whoop, sugarcube.
Yeah, we'll just have to [sigh] climb over.
Wha! Wha...
My apologies.
Not your fault.
[sigh] Still think it was a good idea to bring Fluttershy along?
We're about to find out. We're here. Rainbow Dash, you'll use your wings to clear the smoke.
Mm-hmm.
Rarity and Pinkie Pie, you'll create a diversion to distract the dragon if things get a little hairy in there.
Applejack, you're ready with the apples in case he decides to attack. But it shouldn't come to that, because Fluttershy will do what she needs to do to wake him up, and between the two of us, we should be able to get him to understand why he needs to go. Is everypony ready?
Okay then, we're goin' in. So, what is the best way to wake up a sleeping dragon without upsetting him? Fluttershy? Oh, come on! Come on! [grunt] We have to do this! [grunt] Now! Every [grunts] second longer that dragon [grunts] sleeps is another [grunts] acre of Equestria that is covered in [grunts] smoke. Ooh!
I-- I-- I can't go in the cave.
Oh, great. She's scared of caves now, too.
I'm not scared of caves, I'm scared of [mumble].
What's that, sugarcube?
I'm scared of [mumble].
What?
I'm scared of dragons!
But Fluttershy. You have a wonderful talent dealing with all kinds of animals.
Yes, because they're not dragons.
Oh come on! We've seen you walk right up to a horrible manticore like it was nothing.
Yes, because he wasn't a dragon.
Spike is a dragon. You're not scared of him.
Yes, because he's not a huge, gigantic, terrifying, enormous, teeth-gnashing, sharp-scale having, horn-wearing, smoke-snoring, could eat a pony in one bite, totally all grown-up dragon!
But, if you're so afraid of dragons, why didn't you say something before we came all the way up here?
I was afraid to.
Ugh.
All of us are scared of that dragon.
I'm not!
Almost all of us are scared of that dragon, but we've got a job to do. So, get in there with Twilight and show her what you're made of.
I-- I-- I just... can't.
Oh, Fluttershy.
I'm goin' in. He... probably just doesn't realize what he's doing... right?
Mr. Dragon.
Excuse me.
Mr. Dragon.
Oh, good, you're awake. Please allow me to introduce myself. My name is Twilight--
Augh! Puh! Sparkle, and my friends and I are residents here in Equestria. Ponyville, to be exact. We've come here to ask that you find another spot to take your nap. It's just that you seem to be doing an awful lot of snoring, and every time you do you send out a terrible cloud of smoke. [coughs] Equestria simply can't survive a hundred years in a dark haze. You understand, don't you?
So much for [coughs] persuading him.
Now what?
[coughs] Obviously, this situation just calls for a little "pony charm". Allow me, girls. I'm so sorry to interrupt. [clears throat] But I couldn't possibly head back home without mentioning what handsome scales you have. And those scales have to be hidden away in some silly cave for a hundred years?
Personally, I think you should skip the snoozing and be out there, showing them off. Hmm. Obviously, I would be more than happy to keep an eye on your jewels while you're gone.
I was this close to getting that diamond.
You mean... getting rid of that dragon?
Oh, yeah... sure.
What in tarnation...?
Darling, you look ridiculous.
Exactly! Sharing a laugh is a sure-fire way to get someone on your side! Hi!
Apparently he doesn't like laughing, heh. Or sharing.
All right, that's it. We tried persuasion, charm, whatever it is Pinkie Pie does.
It's time to stop wasting time! I'm going in!
Rainbow, no!
Heh. Sorry.
Who-o-o-o-o-a!
Ugh!
How dare you... How dare you! Listen here, mister. Just because you're big doesn't mean you get to be a bully! You may have huge teeth, and sharp scales, and snore smoke, and breathe fire. But you do not-- I repeat-- You do not! Hurt! My! Friends! You got that?
Well?
But that rainbow one kicked me.
And I am very sorry about that. But you're bigger than she is, and you should know better. You should also know better than to take a nap where your snoring can become a health hazard to other creatures.
But I--
Don't you 'but I' me, mister. Now what do you have to say for yourself? I said, what do you have to say for yourself?
There, there. No need to cry. You're not a bad dragon, you just made a bad decision. Now go pack your things. You just need to find a new place to sleep. That's all.
You did it! I knew you could do it.
[pant] I said come back here! Ooh! How does Fluttershy put up with you furry little things?
Spike, take a letter.
[sigh] With pleasure.
Dear Princess Celestia,
I am happy to report that the dragon has departed our fair country, and that it was my good friend, Fluttershy, who convinced him to go. This adventure has taught me to never lose faith in your friends. They can be an amazing source of strength, and can help you overcome even your greatest fears.
Always your faithful student,
Twilight Sparkle.
Twilight! You gotta come see this! She's just five away from a new pony record!
Three hundred forty-seven, three hundred forty-eight...
Dragon!
[pants] Why are you laughing? That awful dragon is back!
Pinkie Pie, you scared me! I mean, uh, you... broke my concentration.
Hmm. Hah! Perfect.
[spit] Just take the broken limbs down, Rarity. Don't y'all care about nothin' other than prettifyin'?
Somepony has to. You were making an absolute mess of the town square, Applejack.
Yeah, well, the storm's gonna make an even bigger mess if we don't prune all these loose branches so they don't tumble down on anypony.
I simply cannot imagine why the Pegasus ponies would schedule a dreadful downpour this evening and ruin what could have been a glorious sunny day.
[sigh] Think more practical-like, will ya? They accidentally skipped a scheduled sprinkle last week, so we need a doozy of a downpour to make up for it, is all.
Oh no! My wonderfully styled mane shall be ruined!
Ya shoulda hurried up and finished the job already.
Oh! Ah! Oh! Ph! It's coming down too fast! Ah! Oh! Oh! Ah! Help me!
Uh, there. Hunker down to yer heart's content whilst I finish things.
[pant] Oh, no, no, no!
What now?
I prefer not to get my hooves muddy.
Guh. There is just no pleasin' ya, is there? Everything's got to be just so.
[scoff] Well, and how does muddying my hooves serve any useful purpose?
Y'all wouldn't know useful if it came up and bit'cha.
[laugh] That doesn't even make any sense.
Does so.
Does not.
Does so.
Does not.
Does so.
Does not.
Does so infinity. Hah.
Does not infinity plus one. Heh. What say we go our separate ways before one of us says something she will regret?
I reckon y'all are gonna say something you'll regret first.
On the contrary, I believe it shall most certainly be you who says something you will regret first.
I'm not sayin' anythin'.
Nor am I.
Y'all just be on yer way, then.
After you!
Perhaps we should stick together for now and find some shelter.
Uh-huh, perhaps we should. And fast.
Heh. Nice and dry under here, sorta.
Oh! Unacceptable.
Applejack! Rarity! Applejack! Rarity!
Twilight?
Come inside girls, quick.
Whoa, nelly. Is inside a tree really the best place to be in a lightning storm?
It is if you have a magical lightning rod protecting your home like I do. Come on in!
Hah! We are most grateful for your invitation.
Thank ya kindly for yer hospitality.
Uh, do be a polite house guest and go wash up please, won't you?
[grumble] If I gotta spend one more second with that fussbudget Rarity today, I can't be held responsible for what I'm gonna do.
Some storm, huh? The Pegasus ponies sure have outdone themselves this time. I hope you and Applejack don't have any trouble getting home.
It may indeed be a problem.
Well, you're welcome to stay if need be. Spike is away in Canterlot on royal business. I'm home all alone tonight. [gasp] You and Applejack should totally sleep over! We'll have a slumber party! I've always wanted one of those.
Oh! Uh, goodness. Uh, I do believe I have another engagement scheduled for this evening that completely slipped my mind until just now. [nervous laugh] Ah, silly me, I can't possibly stay here all night -- with Applejack. [reading] Slumber 101: All You've Ever Wanted to Know About Slumber Parties But Were Afraid to Ask.
My own personal copy. It's a fantastic reference guide. You should see the table of contents. I've been waiting for a chance to use it, and today is the day! This is gonna be so great!
[gasp] What in tarnation... Now wait just a goll-darn minute. Ya make me wash the mud off my hooves, but it's okay for y'all to have mud all over yer faces?
Silly! This is called a mud mask. It's to refresh and rejuvenate your complexion.
We're giving each other makeovers! Eee-hee! We have to do it, it says so in the book.
Slumber 101: Everything You... Oh hey, heh, would'ja look at the time. I gotta skidaddle on home quick. I'm powerful late for, uh, fer somethin'. Uh, g'night. [cry] Or maybe I'll sit here for a spell.
Hurray slumber party!
Blahch. What in the world is this for?
[sigh] To reduce the puffiness around one's eyes, of course.
Hee-hee! Isn't this exciting? We'll do everything by the book, and that will make my slumber party officially fun.
Did you hear that, Applejack? You certainly would not want to do anything that would ruin Twilight's very first slumber party, would you?
Of course not, 'n you wouldn't either, I reckon?
So do we have an agreement?
Oh! Gross! You know, there's messy and there's just plain rude.
You know, there's fussy, 'n there's just plain gettin' on my nerves.
Fortunately, I can get along with anypony, no matter how difficult she may be.
Oh yeah? Well, I'm the "get-alongin-est" pony you're ever gonna meet.
That's not even a word.
This is going to be the bestest slumber party ever! Yay!
Yay.
So, how are you getting along over there, Applejack?
Just fine, Rarity.
This is so awesome! [giggle] Makeovers, check. Ooh, it says here we have to tell ghost stories. Who wants to go first?
Me! I'd like to tell y'all the terrifying tale of the prissy ghost who drove everypony crazy with her unnecessary neatness. Oo-oo! I'm sure y'all are familiar with that one?
Never heard of it, but I have a much better one. It's the horrifying story of the messy, inconsiderate ghost who irritated everypony within a hundred miles! Oo-oo!
That's not a real story. You made it up.
It is a ghost story, they're all made up.
I've got one! This story is called The Legend of The Headless Horse. It was a dark and stormy night, just like this one. And three ponies were having a slumber party, just like this one...
...and just when the last pony thought she was safe, there, standing right behind her, just inches away was--The Headless Horse!
Ghost story, check. Now, who wants s'mores?
Ooo!
[sigh] You could at least say excuse me.
Aw, I was just about to, but you interrupted me. Pardon.
S'mores, check. Now the next item of fun we have to do is Truth or Dare.
I dare Applejack to do something carefully and neatly for a change.
Oh yeah? Well I dare Rarity ta lighten up and stop obsessin' over every last little detail, for a change.
I think the truth of the matter is that somepony could stand to pay a little more attention to details.
And I think the truth is somepony oughta quit with her fussin' so the rest of us can get things done.
Um, I don't think this is how the game's supposed to work. You have to give an honest answer to any question or do whatever anypony dares you to do.
I dares you to step outside and let your precious, tidy mane get ruined again.
You have to. It's the rule.
Hah!
Okay. I dare Applejack to play dress-up in a frou-frou, glittery, lacey outfit.
[gasp] Happy?
Um, do I ever get a turn?
I dare ya to enter the next rodeo when it comes to town.
I dare you not to enter the next rodeo that comes to town.
I dare ya to not comb your mane a hundred times before bed.
And I dare you to comb yours just once.
I, uh, I think we should check off Truth or Dare and move on. Let's see what our next fun-fun-fun thing is, shall we? Hm, what does this mean? Pillow fight?
Oh, I get it! Pillow, fight! Fun! Ugh. Ah. Uh, girls? Maybe we should take it down a notch?
I will if she will.
[gasp] She started it.
[spit] Maybe we should just call it a night and get some sleep?
Keep your muddy hooves on your side of the bed.
My hooves ain't muddy.
They were. There might still be a little on them.
There ain't. See?
Eww!
Now who's bein' inconsiderate?
I have to make the bed again so the blanket will be right. Get up.
Hey!
Ah ah ah! You'll ruin it. You have to do it like this. Mm, uh, ooh, u-u-u-uh, uh, ah.
Yeah, that's not gonna happen. Geronimo!
Hey!
Ah.
You did that on purpose.
Um, yeah?
Get up so I can fix it again.
M-mmm!
I ain't budgin'.
You will if you want any blankets.
Give it back!
I will not!
Yes, you will!
Won't!
Will!
Won't!
Will!
Won't!
Will!
Enough! It says right here that the number one thing you're supposed to do at a slumber party is have fun, and thanks to you two I can't check that off!
I've been tryin' my darndest to get along.
No, it is I who have been trying my best.
No, it was me.
No, it was I.
Me!
I!
I hope you're happy, both of you. You've ruined my very first slumber party. The makeover, the s'mores, Truth or Dare, the pillow fight... I mean, is there anything else that could possibly go wrong?
Sorry I asked.
Ya see? That's why we needed to take down all those loose branches in town, not spiffy 'em up.
But I--
Outta my way, missy! Time's a-wastin'.
Wait! Stop! Don't!
No waitin'! No stoppin'! Doin'! And that, my friends, is what we call gettin' 'er done.
[cries] I tried to tell you it would come crashing down in here.
Well, ya shoulda tried harder. [sigh] I'm mighty sorry, Twilight.
It's... Well, it's not okay. There's a giant tree branch in the middle of my bedroom, and the book doesn't say anything about having a giant tree branch at your slumber party. Or at least I haven't found that entry yet. Ooh... ah!
What in tarnation are y'all doin' over there?
Cleaning up this mess somepony made. Who was that again? Oh, right, that's you.
We gotta do somethin'!
Baking... BFFs... Brothers... There's nothing in here about branches.
[grunts] Rarity, for pony's sake, stop sweatin' the small stuff and help me get rid of this thing! I said hussle over here and help me! Look, I'm sorry, all right?
What was that?
I said I'm sorry! I shoulda listened to you when you noticed where this here branch would end up. Yer annoyin' attention to detail would'a saved us from this whole mess. But right now, ya need to stop bein' so dang fussy pickin' up all the little things and help me move the one big thing in here that actually matters! Please!
Uh. Uh, but I'll get all icky.
Consarnit! What the... eh... you... I mean, yes, ickiness is often a side effect of hard work. But y'all need to get over it, on account I just can't fix this mess I made myself. I need your help.
Oh. Let's do this.
Well, they do have a section about backyard slumber parties. Is that what we're doing right now? Does this count as camping?
U-ugh. Oh, I look awful.
Better?
Hmph, thanks.
Oh, pretty! Where did these come from? They're not in the book either.
Is it bigger than a barn?
[laugh] Nope.
Is it smaller than a saddle?
[laugh] No! Only three of your twenty questions left!
[sigh] We're never gonna guess what you're thinkin' of, it could be anythin'.
Are we getting warmer?
Why? Is it too cold in here for you? I can turn up the heat.
She means are we gettin' any closer with our guesses?
Oh! No. And that technically counted as a question, so only two more left!
Is it... a six-legged pony with a purple polka-dotted mane and shootin' stars comin' out of his eyes?
Who flies through the air all over the world to hide magic, sparkly eggs?
That's it!
It is?
No. [chuckle] It's that. But it was just so nice to see you two finally getting along, I wanted you to be able to win together.
See? We could have been having fun like this all along.
If only somepony hadn't been so persnickety.
Well, maybe she wouldn't have been if somepony else hadn't been so sloppy.
Sorry for being such a pain in the patootie.
Oh, no, I'm sure I was much worse.
That's kind of ya to say, but I'm the one who's sorry.
Oh, I'm much more sorry than you are.
Ugh. Are not.
Are too.
Are not!
Are too.
Are not.
Are too.
I declare my first slumber party a success!
Have fun, check.
Now take two steps to your left. Uh, no, my left.
[laughter] Sorry.
Dear Princess Celestia,
It's hard to believe that two ponies who seem to have so little in common could ever get along. But I found out that if you embrace each other's differences, you just might be surprised to discover a way to be friends after all.
So, who's up for another slumber party tomorrow night? Ugh. How about a week from Thursday? Oh, how about two weeks from Saturday? A month from now?
Wow, what a gorgeous day!
Rainbow Dash must have gotten up early for once and cleared all the clouds away.
I bet all of Ponyville is going to be out enjoying the sunshine. What? Where is everypony?
Is it some sort of pony holiday?
Not that I know of.
Not more than usual.
Is it... zombies?!
Uh... not very likely.
Not likely... but possible?
Psst! Twilight! Spike! Come here! Come! Here! Hurry! Before she gets you!
Who?! The zombie pony?
Z-Zombie pony?!
Spike! There are no zombie ponies. Pinkie, what are you doing here alone in the dark?
I'm not alone in the dark.
[gasp] Okay then, what are you all doing here in the dark?
We're hidin' from her!
Did you see her Twilight? Did you see... Zecora?
Apple Bloom! I told you never to say that name.
Well, I saw her glance this way...
Glance evilly this way.
... And then a bunch of you flip out for no good reason.
No good reason? You call protectin' yer kin no good reason? Why, as soon as my sister saw Zecora ridin' into town, she started shakin' in her lil' horseshoes.
[shakily] Did not!
So I swept her up and brought her here.
I walked here myself!
For safe keepin'.
Applejack, I'm not a baby! I can take care of myself!
Not from that creepy Zecora.
She's mysterious.
Sinister.
And spoooooky!
Will you cut that out?
Just look at those stripes! So garish!
She's a zebra.
A what!?
A zebra, and her stripes aren't a fashion choice Rarity, they're what she was born with.
Born where? I've never seen a pony like that in these parts, 'cept... her!
Well, she's probably not from here, and she's not a pony. My books say that zebras come from a faraway land. But I've never seen her in Ponyville. Where does she live?
That's just it, she lives in... the Everfree Forest!
Spike!
Uh, sorry.
The Everfree Forest just ain't natural. The plants grow...
Animals care for themselves...
And the clouds move...
Applejack, Fluttershy, All on their own!
And that wicked enchantress Zecora lives there doing her evil... stuff! She's so evil I even wrote a song about her!
Here we go...
She's an evil enchantress She does evil dances And if you look deep in her eyes She'll put you in trances Then what will she do? She'll mix up an evil brew Then she'll gobble you up In a big tasty stew Soooo... Watch out!
Wow. Catchy.
It's a work in progress.
This is all just a lot of gossip and rumors. Now tell me; what exactly have you actually seen Zecora do?
Well... Once a month, she comes into Ponyville.
[dramatically] Oooooh.
Then, she lurks by the stores.
[dramatically] Oh, my.
And then, she digs at the ground.
[dramatically] Good gracious! [normal tone] Okay, I'm sorry. But how is any of this bad? Maybe she comes to town to visit?
Yeah! Maybe she's just tryin' to be neighborly.
And maybe she's not lurking by the stores, maybe she's going to them, lurk free, to do some shopping?
Yeah! Everypony likes to shop. You know what I think?
Apple Bloom! Hush and let the big ponies talk.
[under breath] I am a big pony!
W-what about digging at the ground? You've got to admit that's weird.
What if she's digging for innocent creatures?
I am sure there is an explanation for everything Zecora does. And if anypony here were actually brave enough to approach her, she would find out the truth.
You ponies are being ridiculous!
Well, I heard that Zecora eats hay.
Pinkie, I eat hay; you eat hay!
Yeah, but I heard it's the evil way she eats hay.
Hey! Where's Apple Bloom?
The door's open.
She went outside!
And Zecora's still out there.
[sigh] That silly lil' filly! I told her to stay put!
Spike, you stay here in case Apple Bloom comes back.
Will do!
Apple Bloom?
You get back here right now!
Beware! Beware, you pony folk! Those leaves of blue are not a joke!
Y-you keep your creepy mumbo-jumbo to yourself, ya hear?
[sighs] Oh brother.
Beware! Beware!
Yeah, back at ya, Zecora! You and your lame curse are the ones who better beware!
And you! Why couldn't you just listen to yer big sister?
I...I...
Who knows what kind of nasty curse Zecora could have just put on you?
You guys, there's no such thing as curses!
Well, that's interesting to hear coming from Miss Magic Pants herself.
My magic, real magic, comes from within. It's a skill you're born with. Curses are artificial, fake magic. It's conjured with potions and incantations; all smoke and mirrors meant to scare. But curses have no real power, they're just an old pony tale.
Just you wait, Twilight. You're gonna learn that some pony tales really are true.
She's an evil enchantress, she does evil dances!
Beware! Beware!
If you look deep in her eyes, she will put you in trances!
Yeah, was that supposed to scare us?!
Wicked, wicked zebra!
... it's a curse.
Then what will she do?
Just you wait, Twilight; some pony tales really are true.
Then she'll gobble you up in a big tasty stew! Soooo... Watch out!
Ugh... what a dream... Curses, schmurses. Whoa! [chuckle] Maybe Zecora cursed my hair. [Laughs nervously and then gasps] Or she cursed my horn!
No no no no no! None of these books have a cure! Ugh! There has to be a real reason for this! An illness? An allergy?!
A curse!
I said a real reason. Something that points to something real.
How about this one?
"Supernaturals"? Spike, the word supernatural refers to things like ghosts and spirits and zombies, which are as make-believe as curses. This book is just a bunch of hooey!
But what if you're wrong, Twilight? What if this really is a-
Ah pfurse!
A purse? How could it be a purse?
Pinkie? What happened?
Pee pah Zthecora! Sthe put a cursthe on me!
Hey, say it, don't spray it, Pinkie!
[thud] Ow! [thud] Oh! She's [thud] trying to say-ow!- Zecora [thud]-oh!-[crash] she slapped us all with a-ow- curse!
[high pitched voice] I hate to say I told ya so, Twilight, but I told ya so!
It's a curse, I tells ya!
But Fluttershy... seems just fine!
Yes, there doesn't seem to be a thing wrong with her.
Fluttershy? Are you okay? Is there something wrong with you? Would you care to tell us? So... you're not going to tell us? Yes you're not, or yes you will?
Good gravy, girl! What's wrong with you?!
[deep male voice] I don't want to talk about it.
This is hilarious! [laughs] Look at all of you! We got: Hairity, Rainbow Crash, Spitty Pie, Apple Teeny, Flutterguy, and... uh... I got nothin'... Twilight Sparkle. I mean seriously, I can't even work with that.
[Sarcastic laughter] This is no joke, Spike. Now start looking for more books so I can find a cure!
[groans] I think we'll find a cure to this curse at Zecora's place!
It's not a curse!
I agree with Dash! We'll go to Zecora's and force her to remove this hex!
It's not a hex either!
This is all my fault. If I hadn't followed Zecora in the first place, none of this would have happened. I just gotta fix this.
Now where does she think she's goin' this time?
I don't care what you say, Twilight. It's time to pony up and confront Zecora. Come on, girls. Are you with me?
Ah am-pft!
And I as well.
Uh, I don't know. Seems awfully dangerous.
How about you, Applejack? Applejack?
Pf-she's gone-pft!
Aah! Or somepony stepped on her!
... or sat on her?
Rarity's hair!
Oh! OH! Pinkie, what are you doing? Ah, really. Aah! You ever hear of personal space?
Nopthe.
Apple Bloom is gone too!
I bet they went after Zecora.
Well we better go find them. Come on girls, let's go.
[grunt] Oh dear. Oh, this is so unseemly. Auuuaah!
Hey, a little help here?
Oopsie! Sorry.
[crash] OW!
Uh... Spike? Are you coming?
Nope! Uh... gotta stay here and look for a cure. [gasp] Twilight Flopple!
Stop right there! Turn around right now, missy!
No.
No?! You can't ignore a direct order from your big sister!
Hehehe. Sorry, Applejack, but I'm the big sister now.
Apple Bloom, you come back here right this instant! I'm gonna tell Big McIntosh on you! Aw, pony feathers.
C'mon girls. We've got to get to Zecora's. Hurry!
Ooh... Ahaha. Easier said than done.
Rainbow! Thank Celestia! There's no time to lose! I need to get to Zecora's pronto! Giddy-up pony!
Ex-CUSE me?
YEEE-HAW!
What the...
No, Rainbow Dash. Other way!
Oh. I look horrible!
Plis place plooks horrible!
Oh my. That place really does look horrible. Nice decorations, if you like creepy!
Sthe sthtole my sthong! Shthe shtole mm mm!
She stole your song?
Oh Pinkie. Doesn't sound anything like your song.
She's an evil enchantress And she does evil dances And if you look deep in her eyes She will put you in trances Then what would she do? She'll mix up an evil brew Then she'll gobble you up In a big tasty stew Soooo... Watch out.
You saw those terrible things. Now do you believe us Twilight?
Scary looking masks, confusing incantations, and a great big bubbling cauldron? [sigh] Everything is pointing to Zecora being... bad. Or... what if Zecora is just making soup?
Mmm! The perfect temperature for ponies, I presume. Now, where is that little Apple Bloom?
Or... what if she's making Apple Bloom soup?!
What if she's making Apple Bloom soup?!
I'm comin' for ya, Apple Bloom!
Aaah!
Whoa there. Easy, Rainbow Crash.
What have you done with Apple Bloom?
Ahh!
Ponies! What is this you...
No! You know not what you do! You've gone and spilled my precious brew!
We're onto you Zecora. I didn't want to believe that you cursed us, but the evidence is overwhelming!
You made me look ridiculous.
You made me sound ridiculous!
[incoherent] You made me speak ridiculous!
You ruined my horn!
How dare you! You destroy my home, destroy my work, then rudely accuse me of being a jerk?
You put this curse on us, now you're gonna uncurse us.
It is unwise to venture down this road. Your actions will make my anger explode!
Where is Apple Bloom!?
Zecora! I think I found all the things ya asked for. What in Ponyville is goin' on here?
[gasp] Apple Bloom! You're okay!
Why wouldn't I be?
Because Zecora is an evil enchantress who cursed us and was gonna cook you up into soup!
Oh Twilight. Did those silly fillies finally get in yer head? You know there's no such thing as a curse.
Apple Bloom, sweetie. You can't just stand there and tell me this isn't a curse.
This isn't a curse.
If you will remember back, the words I spoke were quite exact. [flashback]: Beware, beware you pony folk. Those leaves of blue are not a joke.
It was a warnin'. About that blue plant. It's called Poison Joke.
That plant is much like poison oak. But its results are like a joke.
What in the hay does that mean?
It means this plant does not breed wrath. Instead this plant just wants a laugh.
Will somepony please talk normal?
I think what she's saying is that when we ran in to save Apple Bloom, we ran into the poison joke. All our problems are just little jokes it played on us.
Little jokes?! Very funny.
Okay, fine. But what about the cauldron?
And the chanting?
And the creepy décor?
Treasures of the native land where I am from. This one speaks 'hello', and this 'welcome'.
Not welcoming at all, if you ask me.
The words I chanted were from olden times. Something you call a nursery rhyme.
But the cauldron... The Apple Bloom soup?
Lookie here Twilight. That pot of water wasn't for me, it was for all these herbal ingredients. The cure for poison joke is a simple old-natural remedy. You just gotta take a bubble bath!
But I tried to find a cure in all my books and couldn't find anything. What book has this natural remedy?
Here is the book, you see? Sad that you lack it in your library.
Actually, I do have this book, but I didn't look inside because the title was so... Weird. Supernaturals: Natural Remedies and Cure-alls That Are Simply Super. I...I... I'm so sorry, Zecora. I had the answer the whole time, if only I had bothered to look inside.
[chuckle] Maybe next time you will take a second look, and not judge the cover of the book.
Hahaha.
Zecora? Would you be kind enough to mix up another batch of the herbal bath?
Mix it up I certainly will. Yet I am missing an herb from Ponyville.
But whenever Zecora comes to town, all the shops are mysteriously closed.
Oh, well... I think we can help you with that.
Look Rose! How awful!
The wicked enchantress has cursed them all.
The horror, the horror!
Run, ponies! Run!
Daisy, we need to talk.
Dear Princess Celestia,
My friends and I all learned an important lesson this week: Never judge a book by its cover. Someone may look unusual, or funny, or scary. But you have to look past that and learn who they are inside. Real friends don't care what your "cover" is; it's the "contents" of a pony that count. And a good friend, like a good book, is something that will last forever.
Your faithful student,
Twilight Sparkle
Miss Zecora, I would love to get the recipe for this bath. It's simply luxurious!
Applejack! Hey, where's Applejack?!
[normal voice] I'm right here, little sis. I ain't tiny no more!
Oh! I have never felt so lovely in all my life!
Oh, my gosh! I never realized how horrible it is not to be able to talk. I mean, I love talking so much, and when I couldn't talk anymore, my tongue was all 'ehhhh'! It was the worst! Don't you agree, Fluttershy?
[normal voice] ... Yes.
La, la la, la la, la la, la la. Thank you little squirrel, but remember: these flowers are for Princess Celestia. Only the prettiest ones will do. La, la la, la la, la la, la la.
Gah!
Hello, little guy. I've never seen anything like you before.
Oh, are you hungry? Here you go. [gasp] I guess you were hungry.
You're the cutest thing ever! I can't wait to show you to my friends.
Oh! Hurry up, Spike! This place isn't gonna clean itself.
It also didn't mess itself up.
Princess Celestia will be here tomorrow!
I thought this was just an unofficial casual visit.
There's nothing casual about a visit from royalty. I want this place to be spotless, and you've barely made a dent in the clutter.
Maybe you should, ugh, start reading them one at a time-- whoa ho! Aw.
Everything's got to be perfect. No time for fooling around.
You know, this would be an awful lot easier if there weren't two of us here getting under each other's feet.
Great idea. You clean, I'll go see how everyone else's preparations are coming.
What happened to the rest of her name?
We couldn't fit it all in.
You can't hang a banner that says "Welcome Princess Celest". Take it down and try again.
That looks perfect. Keep up the good work.
Hello, Mr. and Mrs. Cake. How's the banquet coming?
Mrs. Uh...it would be coming a little better if...
Pinkie! What are you doing? Those sweets are supposed to be for the princess.
I know. That's why I'm tasting them. Somepony needs to make sure that everything is tasty enough to touch the royal tongue, and I, Pinkie Pie, declare that these treats are fit for a king, or a queen, or a princess.
Twilight, Pinkie, you won't believe... oh, I'm sorry. Uh, am I interrupting?
No, not at all. Come on in and make yourself at home. [slurp] What's going on, Fluttershy?
You won't believe what I found at the edge of the Everfree Forest. Come on out, little guy. It's okay.
[gasp] Three?
They're amazing. What are they?
I'm not sure. I'm also not sure where these other two came from.
I'll take one off your hooves. I've never seen anything so... adorable. Besides, it'll be nice to have a companion for Spike so he won't bother me so much while I'm studying.
Pinkie, do you want the other one?
Ugh! A parasprite? Are you kidding?
Ugh?
A para-what?
How could you not like...
Ugh. Now I gotta go find a trombone.
A what?
Ahhh, typical Pinkie.
Stand still, Rainbow Dash.
Ugh, I caaan't, I need to flyyy! This is waaay too boring for me.
Do you want to look nice for Princess Celestia or not?
Wow. Rarity, those outfits are gorgeous.
Mmhmm. Thank you, Twilight. Nice to know someone appreciates my talents.
Ugh, sooo boooring.
Huh?
What's that sound, Twilight?
Wow, what are they?
The better question is, where did they come from? I only had one a minute ago.
Uh, I'll take one.
Me too, oh, they're perfect.
Does anypony know where I can find an accordion?
Girls! Hello! This is important. Durgh! Thanks a lot.
[sigh] The decorations, the banquet, I really hope everything comes together in time for tomorrow.
Oh, [yawn] what's there to worry about?
Spike! Wake up! What happened?
Huh? Whaaa! What's going on?
Where did they come from?
I don't know. The little guy got hungry in the night, so I gave him a snack, but... I have no idea where these others came from. Oh no! They're messing up all my hard work!
The princess will be here in a few hours.
Ugh.
Spike, help me round up these little guys.
Ugh, what does it look like I'm doin'? Ooow, waaah! D'oh. I know, I know, "stop fooling around".
Huh? Huh?! [screech] [grunt] [groan] Get off me! [groan] [grunt] Waaa!
Not only are you adorable, but you're also quite useful.
Oh! Are you okay? Aaah! [gasp] Eewww. Aaah! Gross gross gross! No creature that behaves so revoltingly is allowed in my boutique!
Look Rarity, Applejack loaned me a harmonica. [plays harmonica] Isn't that great?
[gasp] And not a moment too soon.
Ugh, Pinkie, I'm a little busy right now.
And I'm not? You know how many more instruments I've gotta find? A lot, that's how many. Now if we split the list between us, we might just make it in time.
Please, Pinkie, I don't have time for some silly scavenger hunt. I've got a real problem.
You've got a real problem, all right. And a banjo is the only answer!
[gasp] I see we're having the same problem.
Ditto!
Fluttershy knows everything about animals, I'm sure she can tell us how to stop them from multiplying.
...or not.
Ugh, do something Fluttershy, can't you control them?
I've tried everything I know: I've tried begging, and pleading, and beseeching, and asking politely and...
Guh.
If we can't get them under control before the princess arrives, it'll be a total disaster.
Ew! If you ask me, it's already a total disaster.
Here's all those apples you wanted, Fluttershy, but I still can't figure why y'need so many. Hey!
What do we do?
[gasp] I got it! Nopony can herd like Applejack.
Yeah! We can drive 'em back into the forest.
[scoffs] I'll rastle 'em up, but I need everypony's help to do it. Twilight, you and Rarity wait over there. I'll herd the little critters straight at ya like a funnel. Rainbow Dash, you and Fluttershy stay on top of 'em, don't let 'em fly away.
Aye aye.
Yeeeeeee-haw!
Alright y'all, here goes nothin'. Look out Rarity, that one's fixin' to get away. Keep a lead on 'em, Rainbow Dash! Hold on girls, we're almost there.
Pinkie!
Twilight, we don't have much time.
You're telling me. The princess could arrive at any moment.
Exactly. That's why I need you gals to drop what you're doing and help me find some maracas.
Maracas? Pinkie, we've got much bigger problems than missing maracas.
[gasp] You're right! Getting a tuba has to be our number one goal. Follow me. I said, follow me!
Pinkie Pie, you are so random.
And you are all so stubborn!
Forget her ladies. Focus. Head 'em up and move 'em out.
Ouch.
We did it. Nice work, Applejack.
Couldn't a'done it without y'all.
Now let's get back and clean up the mess they made before the princess arrives.
Okay, everyone knows what to do, right? We gotta work extra hard to make up for lost time.
Where did they come from?
Well, I may have kept just one. Heh. I couldn't help myself. They're just so cute.
We don't have time to keep rounding up these things. What do we do now?
Time to take out the adorable trash. YAAAAAA!
[grunt] Way to go, Rainbow Dash!
Looks like our problems are solved.
They will be with these cymbals. [crash] Hey! Give me those back!
Whoa. Yaa! Yow! Whoa! Wow! I can't hold it! She's breaking up.
Pinkie Pie, what have you done?
I've lost a brand new pair of cymbals, that's what I've done.
Will you forget about your silly instruments for one second? You're ruining our efforts to save Ponyville.
Me? Ruin? I'm not the ruiner, I'm the ruin-ee! Or is it ruiness? Ruinette?
Come on girls, there's no reasoning with that one. She's a few apples short of a bushel.
Hey! I'm trying to tell you all that the ruining is on the other hoof. If you'd just slow down and listen to me!
Aah!
What do we do? They're eating all the food in town.
[gasp] My apples!
We've gotta do something. [gasps] I got it! I'll cast a spell to make them stop eating all the food.
Heh. Hey, it worked. They're not eating the food anymore.
Oh no... if they get inside my store... Everypony for herself!
I'll save you!
No woodland creature's gonna eat the Apple Family's crop.
Brace yourself, y'all, here they come. [gasp] Didn't see that one comin'.
Help!
Help...
Ugh. Have you gone mad?
Zecora, these little guys are devouring Ponyville, and the princess is on her way. Can you help us, please?
Oh, monster of so little size. Is that a parasprite before my eyes?
I don't know! Is it?
Tales of crops and harvests consumed. If these creatures are in Ponyville, you're doomed.
[grunts] Oh no, here she comes.
Aaaah, aaaaaaah!
Okay, here's the plan. Rainbow Dash, you distract them.
YAAAA!
Good. Everyone else, we need to build an exact copy of Ponyville right over there. We've got less than a minute. Zecora was right, we're doomed. Oh no, the princess's procession is here. It's all over!
Pinkie? We're in the middle of a crisis here. This is no time for your... nonsense?
Look.
Twilight Sparkle, my prized pupil.
Hello, princess.
So lovely to see you again, as well as your friends.
So... how was the trip? Hit much traffic?
Ah, what is this? Oh ho ho, these creatures are adorable.
They're not that adorable.
I'm terribly honored that you and the good citizens of Ponyville have organized a parade in honor of my visit.
Parade? Oh. Yes, the parade.
Unfortunately, that visit is going to have to wait for another time. I'm afraid an emergency has come up in Fillydelphia. Apparently there's been some sort of infestation.
An... infestation?
Yes, a swarm of incredibly bothersome creatures has invaded the poor town. I'm sorry Twilight, to have to put you all through so much trouble.
Trouble? What trouble?
Before I have to go, would you care to give me your latest report on the magic of friendship in person?
My... report?
Haven't you learned anything about friendship?
Actually, I have. I've learned that sometimes the solution to your problems can come from where you least expect it. It's a good idea to stop and listen to your friends' opinions and perspectives...
Even when they don't always seem to make sense.
I'm so proud of you, Twilight Sparkle, and I'm very impressed with your friends as well. It sounds like you're all learning so much from each other.
Thank you, princess.
Hey, what happened to the princess?
Emergency in Fillydelphia.
Some sort of infestation.
Oh no! Have they got parasprites too? Well, have tuba, will travel.
I think the princess can handle it.
So you knew what those critters were all along, huh Pinkie Pie?
Well, duh! Why do you think I was so frantic to get my hooves on all these instruments? I tried to tell you.
We know, Pinkie Pie, and we're sorry we didn't listen.
You're a great friend, even if we don't always understand you.
Thanks guys, you're all great friends too, even when I don't understand me.
You saved my reputation with Princess Celestia, and more importantly, you saved Ponyville.
...Or not.
[gasp] Spike, wake up. Wake up, wake up, it's Winter Wrap Up day!
Huh? Mommy?
Winter Wrap Up!
You're not mommy.
Spike, the first day of spring is tomorrow, so everypony in Ponyville needs to clean up winter. Now help me get ready.
Clean up winter? Who cleans up winter? Don't they just use magic to change the seasons like they do in Canterlot?
It's ridiculous. No magic... Fuh.
Okay, let's see: scarf, check; saddle, check; boots, check; Spike refusing to get up and going back to sleep, check. It's a good thing I'm so organized, I'm ready. Bright and early. Oh... maybe a little too early.
Those must be the team vests Rarity designed. Blue for the weather team, green for the plant team, and tan for the animal team. I wonder which team vest I'll be wearing.
I'll take a blue vest, same color as my blankie, which I think I hear calling my name. "Spike! Spike! Come to bed!" Ugh, it's too early.
Thank you, everypony, for being here bright and early. We need every single pony's help to wrap up winter, and bring in spring.
Now, all of you have your vests, and have been assigned to your teams, so let's do even better than last year, and have the quickest Winter Wrap Up ever!
Oh, this is so exciting.
All right everypony, find your team leader, and let's get galloping!
Oh gosh, where should I go? I'm not sure where I fit in. What exactly does everypony do?
Three months of winter coolness And awesome holidays
We've kept our hoovsies warm at home Time off from work to play
But the food we've stored is runnin' out And we can't grow in this cold
And even though I love my boots This fashion's getting old
The time has come to welcome spring And all things warm and green But it's also time to say goodbye It's winter we must clean How can I help? I'm new, you see What does everypony do? How do I fit in without magic? I haven't got a clue!
Winter Wrap Up! Winter Wrap Up! Let's finish our holiday cheer Winter Wrap Up! Winter Wrap Up!
'Cause tomorrow spring–
–is here!
'Cause tomorrow spring is here!
Bringing home the southern birds A Pegasus' job begins And clearing all the gloomy skies To let the sunshine in We move the clouds And we melt the white snow
When the sun comes up Its warmth and beauty will glow!
Winter Wrap Up! Winter Wrap Up! Let's finish our holiday cheer Winter Wrap Up! Winter Wrap Up! 'Cause tomorrow spring is here Winter Wrap Up! Winter Wrap Up! 'Cause tomorrow spring is here 'Cause tomorrow spring is here!
Little critters hibernate Under the snow and ice
We wake up all their sleepy heads So quietly and nice
We help them gather up their food Fix their homes below
We welcome back the southern birds
So their families can grow!
Winter Wrap Up! Winter Wrap Up! ([Rarity] Winter, winter) Let's finish our holiday cheer Winter Wrap Up! Winter Wrap Up! ([Rarity] Winter, winter) 'Cause tomorrow spring is here Winter Wrap Up! Winter Wrap Up! ([Rarity] Winter, winter) 'Cause tomorrow spring is here 'Cause tomorrow spring is here!
No easy task to clear the ground Plant our tiny seeds With proper care and sunshine Everyone it feeds Apples, carrots, celery stalks Colorful flowers too We must work so very hard
[Applejack, Cherry Berry, and Golden Harvest] It's just so much to do!
Winter Wrap Up! Winter Wrap Up! Let's finish our holiday cheer Winter Wrap Up! Winter Wrap Up! 'Cause tomorrow spring is here Winter Wrap Up! Winter Wrap Up!
'Cause tomorrow spring is here
'Cause tomorrow spring is here!
Now that I know what they all do I have to find my place And help with all of my heart Tough task ahead I face How will I do without my magic Help the Earth pony way I wanna belong so I must Do my best today, Do my best today!
Winter Wrap Up! Winter Wrap Up! Let's finish our holiday cheer Winter Wrap Up! Winter Wrap Up! 'Cause tomorrow spring is here Winter Wrap Up! Winter Wrap Up!
'Cause tomorrow spring is here 'Cause tomorrow spring is here 'Cause tomorrow spring is here!
Everypony belongs to a team. What should I do? Where should I go?
All right team, you're clear for takeoff.
Rainbow Dash!
Oh, hey Twilight, what's up?
What are you doing?
Sending off one of my flight crews to retrieve the birds that have flown south for the winter.
Oh, can I help? How about if I help clear out the clouds?
Um...
Right. No wings.
Sorry, Twilight.
[gasp] Great, now what do we do?
Come on Spike, this is serious business. Winter needs to be wrapped up, and I'm determined to do my part. Somehow.
Rarity, please tell me there's something, anything I can help you with.
Well, how would you like to help create Ponyville's finest birds' nests?
Birds' nests?
Why yes. When the weather team guides the birds back north for the spring, they'll need a place to live and lay their eggs.
Wow, Rarity, that one's really beautiful.
Oh why, thank you most sincerely. Would you like to try your hoof at a nest?
Would I? Yes! Where do I begin?
Okay. Now... uh, take some of that straw and hay over there, and a little bit of branch. Now, weave them through there, yes. Uh, take some ribbon, yes, oh uh, n... not there, oooh, yes, uh, tuck it in over there, uh but be careful not to... I don't know I guess that would do... oh dear.
There! It looks just like... yours. Oh my.
That nest needs to be condemned.
Oh, Spa-ha-hike, it's not so bad, ah, maybe birds can use it as a...
An outhouse?
Hw...
I think we lost her.
Ah, and we need to weave the string...
Hellooooooo, Twilight! Wheeeeeeee!
Wow, Pinkie Pie, you're quite the skater. Probably the best skater I've ever seen.
Thanks Twilight, I've been doing this since I was an itty-bitty little-wittle Twinkie-Pinkie. Just comes natural. Which is probably why they designated me the lake scorer. I cut lines in the lakes with my skates. That way, when the rest of the weather team comes here to break the ice, it'll be easy as pie.
How clever. When the thick ice begins to melt, it'll break along the lines. Well, you sure have a lot of work ahead of you, there's quite a few lakes in Ponyville.
Ha, tell me about it. Hey, Twilight, wanna help me out?
Would I?
Come on, put on those skates over there. I bet you'll be a natural too.
Okay.
Uh... maybe on second thought.
What are you talking about? You said you wanted to be helpful.
Yippie!
Now get out there.
Oh no, whoa, wow...
Twilight, steer! Steer!
Yaaaaa!
Oh boy...
Pwuh.
Twilight, you did a great job your first time around. I'm sure my first time was just as wobbly and bobbly and crasheriffic as yours.
Really?
No.
But did I make you feel better?
Mm-hmm, yeah, I guess.
I think you'll be super awesome at something that keeps your hooves on the ground. I know, Fluttershy could probably use your help with the critters.
Well... I'm pretty good with little animals. Yeah, I'll go help her.
Uh... it's, ah, that a-way.
Yaaaaaa!
Wake up, little sleepy heads. Hope you had some wonderful dreams and restful hibernation, but it's time to get up now, spring is coming.
Awww, how cute.
Aren't they? This is my favorite task the whole season, when I get to see all my little animal friends again.
Uh, what's "hibernation"?
It's like a long sleep.
Long sleep?
Yes. [bell rings] Wake up, little porcupines. Animals often hibernate through the winter to save their energy and eat less food.
I definitely like the idea of hibernation, uh, except for the "eat less food" part.
Oh, would you just look at all these warrens and dens? I'm worried that I won't be able to wake up every animal before spring comes.
Well, I'll help, Fluttershy.
You will? Oh, that would be wonderful.
Okay, let's start there.
Hello? Wake up little friends, wherever you are. Spring is coming. [bell rings] I wonder which cute little furry creatures I've awoken.
Waaa! Snakes! Snakes! [scream] Ugh! [grunt] [scream] Ugh!
Good morning, friends.
[sigh] All this Winter Wrap Up stuff is a lot harder than it looks.
[nasally] Right, because there's no magic. Why don't you just use magic, Twilight, and get it done the right way?
No, Spike, I have to do it the traditional way. Ponyville has never needed magic to wrap up winter.
[nasally] Well, they never had you here before, either. Think how much quicker they could wrap up winter with your magic.
Keep pushin', Caramel. That's it, Bumpkin. I know it's hard work, but you guys are doin' great. Yee-haw!
Hey, Applejack. How's everything going?
Oh, just dandy. A little slow startin', but peachy all the same. There's a lot of ground to clear, ya hear? We can't even start the plantin' and the waterin' until we git all these heap a' snow hightailed outta here.
Well, I'd like to help.
Well, I... I dunno Twilight.
Just give me a chance.
Well, I never turn down a hard worker, but...
Think of how much quicker they could wrap up winter with your magic.
I could use a come-to-life spell. Hwww... Here goes...
Hmm. She's awful strong for such a little pony.
That's my girl, following my advice.
And what in tarnation does that mean?
[gasp] Uh-oh. Slow down. Slow down!
Whoa-oa-oa!
What's going on? Wha'd'ya do? You used magic, didn't you?
Nuts, Twilight, you used magic.
The nerve. Can you believe her?
That's not how we do it 'round here, Twilight, and especially not on MY FARM!
Come on, Twilight. Come on out.
I'm a winter mess up.
Well you're good at a lot of things, just not nest-making, ice-skating, animal-waking, snow-clearing.
[whine] Thanks a lot for making me feel so much better.
That's what I'm here for, sister.
Rainbow Dash, y'all on the weather team need to melt the rest of the snow here on the ground and the trees, pronto.
Got it.
Wait. My poor little animals' homes will get flooded if the snow melts too fast.
Got it.
I'm tellin' you, Rainbow, you gotta melt that snow now.
No, you simply must wait.
Okay.
Go.
Stop.
Go.
Stop.
GO!
STOP!
Ugh! Make up your minds!
Oh! What in Equestria are all you arguing about? This sort of silliness is why we were late for spring last year, and the year before that, and the year before that.
Did she say late?
I was hoping my amazingly inspirational speech would urge everyone to do better than last year, but now it looks like we're going to be later than ever. I mean just look at this catastrophe. The ice scorers made the ice chunks too big to melt. The nest designer is horrendously behind, we need several hundred, and she's only made one.
And don't get me started on all the clouds in the sky, the icicles on the trees... This isn't good, not at all!
And it's gonna be all to pieces disastrous if we can't get our seeds all planted.
Chillax Applejack, we're bustin' our chops as fast as we can.
No, not fast, we have to wake animals slowly.
Uh, AJ?
Oh good gravy, Caramel lost the grass seeds again, didn't he?
Eeyup.
[grunt] Ditzy Doo accidentally went north to get the southern birds!
Oh that featherbrain. Didn't she learn her lesson last year when she went west?
Stop this at once. We don't have time to argue. It's almost sundown. Spring is going to be late again. Another year of scandal and shame. If only we could be more organized.
Spike! Get my checklist and clipboard, STAT!
Eh, yes, ma'am.
Stop, everypony!
Stop!
Sorry. I know you all want to complete your jobs on time, but arguing is no way to go about it. What you need is organization, and I'm just the pony for the job.
I can't believe it. Spring is here! On time! And we have you to thank for it. If it weren't for your organizing skills we would still be arguing.
Eeyup.
It was a team effort.
And since you helped every team, we have an official vest for you. We give you the title, "All-Team Organizer".
Gosh, I don't even know what to say. Thank you, everypony.
And hereby I declare that winter is... wrapped up on time.
Spike's sure gonna be in for a hog-sized surprised when that last piece a' ice melts.
Dear Princess Celestia,
Winter Wrap Up was one of the most special things I've ever been a part of here in Ponyville. It helped me to learn we all have hidden talents, and if we're patient and diligent, we're sure to find them, and as always, with good friendship and teamwork, ponies can accomplish anything. How's that, Spike? Spike?
Let's quiet down please. We have a very important lesson to get to. [class quiets down] Thank you. Today we are going to be talking about cutie marks.
You can all see my cutie mark, can't you? Like all ponies, I wasn't born with a cutie mark. My flank was blank.
Aww...! She's so precious!
Then one day, when I was about your age, I woke up to find that a cutie mark had appeared.
Yes I know, but honestly, that's how everypony was wearing their mane back then. I had decided to become a teacher, and the flowers symbolized my hope that I could help my future students bloom if I nurture them with knowledge. The smiles represented the cheer I hope to bring to my little ponies while they were learning. Now, can anyone tell me when a pony gets his or her cutie mark?
Oh! Oh! Oh! When she discovers that certain something that makes her special!
That's right, Twist. A cutie mark appears on a pony's flank when he or she finds that certain something that makes them different from every other pony. Discovering what makes you unique isn't something [Diamond Tiara: Pssst!] that happens overnight, and no amount of hoping, wishing, [Diamond Tiara: Pssst!] or begging, would make a cutie mark appear before its time.
Pssst!
What?!
Apple Bloom! Are you passing a note?
Uh, I... Um...
What could be so important that it couldn't wait until after class? [gasp] It's blank.
Want some sweets? I've got some peppermint sticks. I made them myself.
Mm-mm.
They'll make you smi-i-le.
No...
I don't know why we had to sit through a lecture about getting a cutie mark. I mean, waiting for your cutie mark is sooo last week. You got yours, I just got mine. We all have them already. [gasp] I mean, almost all of us have them already. Don't worry, you two, you're still totally invited to my cute-ceañera this weekend.
It's going to be amazing.
It's a party celebrating me and my fantastic cutie mark. How could it not be?
Gimme a break.
See you this weekend...
It's not fair! It's just not fair!
Don't get your mane in a tangle. You'll get your cutie mark. Everypony gets one eventually.
But I don't want one eventually! I want one right now! I can't go to Diamond Tiara's cute-ceañera without one, I just can't!
'Course you can. Y'know, I was the last pony in my class to get my cutie mark, and I couldn't be prouder of it. I knew my future was to run Sweet Apple Acres, and these bright shiny apples sealed the deal. [gasp] Come to think of it, Granny Smith was the last one in her class, too. Huh, same as Big McIntosh.
I really don't see how that's supposed to make me feel better. It probably means that being the last one in your class to get a cutie mark runs in the family. ...runs in the family. Runs in the family! Runs in the family! You've got apples for your cutie mark, Granny Smith has an apple pie, Big McIntosh has an apple half, my unique talent must has som'n to do with apples! Apples apples apples! [crash] Oops... apples.
Get your delicious, nutritious apples here!
Create fine art for your home with 'em. You have to be crazy not to get a bushel of your very own.
Heh... she's so creative, heh.
You, sir, care t' buy some apples?
Dr. No thanks.
Why not?
Dr. I have plenty at home.
Are you sure?
Dr. Yes, I'm pretty sure I...
You're pretty sure, but you're not absolutely positively completely super-duper sure, are you?
Dr. Y...ah... If I buy some apples, will you please leave me alone?
All right!
You forgot your change!
Woo-hoo! That's how you sell s'm apples and get a cutie mark! So, what does my cutie mark look like? A shoppin' bag full of apples? A satisfied customer eating an apple? Hmm... maybe I gotta increase my sales figures first. You touch it, you buy it! We take cash or credit.
I'm sorry, ma'am. Ma'am! Aww... Now Apple Bloom, you can't just...
That'll be four bits.
I didn't put those in my bag.
Likely story. Four bits, lady!
Apple Bloom! I am really really sorry about that. She's new. Here, take these. No charge. And these. And these.
Y'all come back now, y'hear?
What?
Sorry, little sis, but your apple-sellin' days are over.
What? But how else am I gonna get my cutie mark?
Home. Now.
Hm!
Ugh. Listen, sugarcube, I know it's hard to wait for your very own cutie mark, but, you just can't force it. Besides, you're not that grown-up just yet. Ain't there other fillies in your class without one?
Well... Twist doesn't have hers yet.
Do you think you'd feel better if you went to the party with her?
Mmm-hmm.
Well there you go. Bet you and Twist would have a great time together. Now run along and find your friend.
You're sure you don't want me to stick around 'til the end of th' market?
Hey! Who's been using my racket?
Yeah. I'm sure.
Oh, what's up, Apple Bloom?
So I was thinkin'... maybe we could go to Diamond Tiara's cute-ceañera together. I don't have a cutie mark, you don't have a cutie mark.
Well, um...
Isn't my cutie mark swell? I've always loved making my own favorite sweets, but it took me some time to discover that it was my super-special talent. Pretty sweet, huh?
Yeah, pretty... sweet.
Hey... this doesn't mean we can't go to the cute-ceañera together. You're still gonna come to the party, are you?
Of course she will.
Whoa, looks like somepony's got a dark cloud hanging over her head. Let me do something about that. What's the matter, kid?
[inhales] There's a cute-ceañera this afternoon and everypony in my class will be there and they'll all have their cutie marks and I wanna get my cutie mark but I'm no good at sellin' apples but I really wanna go to the party but how can I go to the party if I don't have my cutie mark which my big sister says I'm gonna get eventually but... I WANT IT NOW!
Applejack says these things take time. I have to just wait for it to happen.
Why wait for something to happen when you can make it happen?
But Applejack says th...
Hey, who are you gonna listen to, Applejack, or the pony who was first in her class to get a cutie mark? I always liked flying an' all, but I was going nowhere in a hurry. It wasn't until my very first race that I discovered a serious need for speed, and KAZAM, this sweet baby appeared as fast as lightning.
That's right, stretch out those legs. Gotta be nice and loose. The key here is to try as many things as possible as quickly as possible. One of them is bound to lead to your cutie mark. Are you ready?
I'm ready!
I said: Are! You! Ready!
I'M READY!
Ah!
Whoa!
Hi-ya! Ee...
Whoaaa! Whoa...
Tried that one... tried that one... tried that one...
Your new outfit is, like, perfect for the party.
I know. It totally shows off my cutie mark.
I love being special.
Can you imagine how embarrassing it must be to be... not special?
I don't even want to, like, think about it.
Tried that one... tried that one...
I'm doomed. Doomed! I'll never find sumth'n I'm good at.
You look like you'd be good at eating cupcakes.
Eatin' cupcakes?
Eating cupcakes?
Eating cupcaaakes!
I really appreciate all your help, Rainbow Dash. You're a really great coach and I really learned a lot from you and I'm sure I can learn a lot more but... I've got some cupcakes to eat! See you at the cute-ceañera! Hold on, Pinkie Pie, I'm comin'.
I can't believe I didn't think of this. A cupcake-eating cutie mark, it's sooo obvious. Now, where are those cupcakes? I'm ready t' chow down!
I don't have any cupcakes.
Oh.
[gasp] But you look like you'd be good at helping me make some.
I guess, uh, making-cupcakes cutie mark could work too.
All you have to do is take a cup of flour! Add it to the mix! Now just take a little something sweet, not sour! A bit of salt, just a pinch!
Baking these treats is such a cinch! Add a teaspoon of vanilla! Add a little more, and you count to four, And you never get your fill of...
Cupcakes! So sweet and tasty! Cupcakes! Don't be too hasty! Cupcakes! Cupcakes, cupcakes, CUPCAKES!
[cough] Hot, hot, hot!
Oooh, those look much better than the last batch. [chomp] Mmm...
Ugh! I guess I'm not cut out to be a baker either. [sigh] I just have to face it, I'm gonna have a blank flank forever.
What about that?
What about what? Is there something on my flank? Is there, is there, is there? [gasp] A cutie mark! It's a... a measuring cup? No. A mixin' bowl? No... Are those cupcakes? A tower of cupcakes maybe.
[blow] Flour. It's flour! Yay! I guessed it. What game you wanna play next? Please say bingo, please say bingo.
Whoa, what's been going on in here?
We've been making cupcakes, wanna try them?
Nnnno thank you... not that they don't look, heh, delicious.
Twilight, you have to help me!
What's the matter?
[inhales] Tiara's cute-ceañera's today and everypony in my class will be there and they'll all have their cutie marks and I want to get my cutie mark but I'm no good at selling apples or hang-gliding or making cupcakes, but I wanna go to the party but how can I go to the party if I don't have my cutie mark, which Pinkie Pie says I can't just make appear, but I need it to appear, right now!
Uhhh... I don't follow. How can I help you?
You can use your magic to make my cutie mark appear.
Oh no, Apple Bloom. A cutie mark is something a pony has to discover for herself.
Please Twilight, jus' trah.
I'm sorry, but-
Oh please, please, please please please!
All right, all right!
Oh thank you thank you thank you. [pwing] Yes! I knew you could do... it.
I'm sorry, sweetie, but I told you-
Try again, try again!
Told you that not even magic can make a cutie mark appear before its time.
It's hopeless, hopeless! I just won't go to the party, I can't go. Everyone will just laugh at me and make fun of me and call me names. It will be the worst night of my life.
I'm sure it won't be as bad as all that.
Forget it, there's no way I'm going to that [gulp] party.
How could I have forgotten the time? How could I have forgotten Pinkie Pie was hosting the party? How could I have forgotten it was at Sugarcube Corner?
Don't forget your party hat, Forgetty Forgetterson!
I have to get out of here before anypony sees me.
Hey! It's my cute-ceañera, I'm supposed to get the first bite at cake.
Okay, Apple Bloom, almost there.
Apple Bloom, you made it. After I heard about Twist, I was afraid you wouldn't show up. I sure am glad you came to your senses about this whole cutie mark thing. These things happen when these things are supposed to happen. Trying to rush 'em just drives you crazy. I'll let you be, looks like your friends want to talk to you.
Well well well, look who's here.
Nice outfit.
Just sumt'n I, uh, pulled together last minute.
It really shows off your cutie mark. Oh wait, that's right, you don't have one.
Uh, I have a cutie mark.
Eh, what? Since when?
Since... Um... Earlier today.
Oh really? Let's see it.
I shouldn't. I couldn't. My cutie mark is so unbelievably amazing, I'm afraid that if I show it off, everyone will start paying attention to me instead of you. Outshined at your own cute-ceañera. Can you imagine how embarrassing that would be?
Uh, forget it, I didn't really want to see it anyway.
Oh no.
Wow, that is an amazing cutie mark.
Nice try...
Blank flank!
[offscreen] You got a problem with blank flanks?
I said, you got a problem with blank flanks?
The problem is, I mean, she's like, totally not special.
No, it means she's full of potential.
It means she could be great at anything. The possibilities are, [mocking] like, endless.
She could be a great scientist, or an amazing artist, or a famous writer. She could even be mayor of Ponyville someday.
And she's not stuck being stuck-up like you two.
Hey, this is my party, why are you two on her side?
Because...
[gasp] You don't have your cutie marks either? I thought I was the only one.
We thought we were the only two.
I for one think you are three very lucky fillies.
Lucky? How can they be lucky?
They still get to experience the thrill of discovering who they are, and what they're meant to be.
And they got all the time in the world to figure it out, not just an afternoon.
"Tornado Bolt": Wow, Apple Bloom, I wish I could be a scientist.
"Piña Colada": Do you really think you could be mayor?
"Coronet": Maybe I got my cutie mark too soon.
Hey, what's everypony doing? This is my party, everypony is supposed to be paying attention to me.
Whatever. We still think you're losers, right, Diamond Tiara? Bump, bump, sugar... lump...
Not now, Silver Spoon.
Name's Scootaloo.
And I'm Sweetie Belle.
Apple Bloom.
This song is so super!
So I was thinking, now that we're friends... I mean, we are friends, right?
How could we not be? We're totally alike. We don't have cutie marks, Diamond Tiara and Silver Spoon drive us crazy--
Totally crazy.
Well, now that we're friends, what if the three of us work together to find out who we are and what we're supposed to be?
Ooh! Ooh! We could form our own secret society.
I'm liking this idea.
A secret society. Yeah. We need a name for it though.
The Cutie Mark Three?
The Cutastically Fantastics?
How about... The Cutie Mark Crusaders?
It's perfect!
This is gonna be so great!
We're gonna be unstoppable!
What do you say we celebrate with some of these delicious cupcakes?
Not the cupcakes. Trust me.
Let's see if there are any cookies.
Yeah! Come on.
Dearest Princess Celestia,
I am happy to report that one of your youngest subjects has learned a valuable lesson about friendship. Sometimes, the thing you think will cause you to lose friends and feel left out...
...can actually be the thing that helps you make your closest friends and realize how special you are. Hmm...
[grunt] Whoo-hoo!
Hoo-wee! Not a bad pitch for a pony who works with her head in the clouds.
Oh yeah? Think you can do better, cowgirl?
I know I can. [grunt] Oh, for Pete's sake!
Heh! Looks like this Pegasus can pitch better than the workhorse. The object of the game is to get the closest to the stake.
All right, all right. You got another throw there, pony girl.
[sarcastically] Wow, Rainbow, heh. You couldn't hit a barn door with that kind of a throw!
Yeah, yeah. I still have the closest throw, Applesmack. Just try and beat it.
[grunt] Yee-haw! It's a ringer. That's how you do it down here on the farm.
I lost.
Ah, don't feel bad, Rainbow. It's all in good fun.
I hate losing.
Besides, you're a mighty good athlete. I'm just better. Heh heh heh.
All right, Applejack, you think you're the top athlete in all of Ponyville?
Well, I was gonna say in all of Equestria, but that might be gildin' the lily.
...and I think I'm the top athlete. So let's prove it.
Prove what?
I challenge you to an Iron Pony competition. A series of athletic contests to decide who's the best, once and for all.
You know what, Rainbow? You're on.
So you two are doing what, now?
An Iron—
Iron Pony competition.
See, we've set up a bunch of events to decide which one of us is—
And I'm here to...?
[grunt] I don't know. Why is she here?
To be our judge and keep score.
Hello everypony, and welcome to the first annual Iron Pony competition!
Uh, Spike, who are you talking to?
Um... Uh, them! Let the games begin!
Ready. Set. Go!
[gasp] Dagnabbit.
Time, Spike?
17 seconds.
You're kiddin'! That breaks my record from last year's rodeo.
But you got a five second penalty for nudging the barrel.
[sigh] Nuts and chews! Still, that's 22 seconds. Not too shabby. Hey, don't be nervous. Remember, it's all in good fun. Now git on up there.
Ready. Set. Go!
Woo! That was some fancy hoofwork there, Rainbow!
Thanks, but I [pant] couldn't have been as fast as you.
What was the time on that, Spike?
18 seconds!
18 seconds. Rainbow, are you sure you're not secretly a rodeo pony?
Rainbow Dash wins the barrel lead!
Oh, I can't believe I won.
Yeah, well, don't you go gettin' used to it.
Years of applebuckin'.
Ugh.
Waa-hoo!
Whoo-hoo!
Eeyup!
Why me?
Go!
Whoa! Whoa! Whoa-hoa! Whoa! Whoaaa! Ouch.
Ready for another pony ride?
No.
Go!
Guh guh guh guh guh guh guh guh guh guh guh guhwhoaaaaaa!
Rainbow Dash wins the bronco-buck.
And I lose.
Whoa! [grunt] How do I get roped into these things?
[grunt] Does this count?
[grunt] Wah!
Yeah.
Fillies and gentlecolts, at the halfway point, our competitors are tied at five and five.
Who are you talking to?
Them!
95, 96, 97, 98, 99... a hundred!
Yes!
Be a good sport, Applejack.
All right, you two. This is the final event. Give it all you've got.
Looks like the workhorse might come out ahead in this one.
[mumbling] That's not fair. You can't use your wings to help you win.
Huh?
[mumbling] You're cheatin'!
I can't understand you with that rope in your mouth.
Whoo-hoo! I win by a landslide... or mudslide in your case. [chuckles] I am the Iron Pony!
Only 'cause you cheated.
What?
You used your wingpower to help you win over half those contests.
Sounds like sour apples to me.
Are you sayin' you didn't use your wings?
Well... no. But you never said I couldn't use my wings.
I didn't think I needed to tell you to play fair.
I still would have won even without my wings.
Hah! Prove it.
Gladly. How?
Tomorrow is the annual Runnin' of the Leaves. I challenge you to race me in it.
Heh! Easy shmeasy.
Hold on! There is one condition: the point is to run, so no wings allowed.
No wings? No problem.
Twilight, hurry up, we're gonna be late for the race.
Why are you so excited about the race? It's only for ponies.
Yeah, but I'm hoping I can be the announcer again. Just listen: Fillies and gentlecolts, welcome to the annual Running of the--
Welcome to the annual Running of the Leaves! This is Pinkie Pie, your official p-eye-in-the-sky announcer.
Sorry, Spike. I guess that job's already taken.
As everypony knows, the Running is a very important tradition, for without it, the autumn leaves of Equestria would never fall. So get ready, ponies. The Running of the Leaves will begin in five minutes.
Pardon me, excuse me. Make way for the Iron Pony.
The Iron Phony, you mean.
So, Applejack, you ready to win second place?
I'm ready to run a good, clean race.
Yeah, yeah...
You are not allowed to use your wings.
I could win this race with both wings tied behind my back.
[grunts] Trussed up like a turkey. Well, a turkey who can't fly, that is.
Very funny.
'Least now we know we're racin' fair and square.
Racers! Please take your positions!
Um... Pinkie Pie?
Uh, yeah. I know you're doing the announcing today and stuff and... I'm sure you're gonna do a great job and all, but... I was just wondering...
What?
Aw... Forget it.
Spike! Would you like to be my co-reporter? We could comment on the action together.
We could?
Climb on up.
Twilight? What in tarnation are you doin' up here?
I'm racing.
[laughs] Good one, Twilight.
I'm not joking.
What? You're not an athlete, you're a... well... you're an egghead.
I am not an egghead, I am well-read.
[softly] Egghead.
[snickers] But have you ever run a race?
Well, no, but I do know a lot about running.
And you know this from...
Books. I've read several on the subject.
What'd you read, "The Egghead's Guide to Running"? Did you stretch out your eye muscles to warm up? [laugh] Get it? Eye muscles.
Scoff if you must, Rainbow. But the Running of the Leaves is a Ponyville tradition, and since I'm here to learn, I've decided I should experience it myself.
Yeah. See you at the finish line... Tomorrow.
All right, ponies, are you ready?
Get set.
And they're off!
Welcome to the official coverage of the Running of the Leaves! You know, Spike, despite its name, the leaves don't do any of the actual running. No, that's left to my little ponies.
Why, yes, Pinkie, it's the running of the ponies that causes the leaves to fall.
Ugh. Those lazy, lazy leaves. But this year, the run is about more than the weather. It's about the race to the finish and the two runners who want to win it: Applejack and Rainbow Dash.
You know, Pinkie, these two ponies have a bit of a grudge match they're trying to settle. Trying to prove who's the most athletic.
Yes, and "grudge" rhymes with "fudge".
Yes, it... does. What?
And I like fudge. But if I eat too much fudge I get a pudge and then I can't budge.
So... no fudge?
Oh, no thanks. I had a big breakfast. Let's check in with our two competitive ponies, Applejack and Rainbow Dash. Having come fast out of the gate, Applejack and Rainbow Dash are evenly matched running neck and neck. But what's this? Applejack is making a move, she's now ahead by a nose. But Rainbow Dash won't let Applejack have it and takes the lead. She's ahead by half a nose. Or maybe three quarters of a nose. No, about sixty-three point seven percent of a nose... roughly speaking. Applejack sees this move and pushes forth with her strong workhorse legs slinking ahead by three hundred and fifty noses!
Not so easy without wings, is it?
Come on, Rainbow. Show 'em a little dash.
Ho-hold your horses, Pinkie! Rainbow Dash is catching up the frontrunner Applejack!
What an upset. I thought Applejack had this in the bag.
You didn't think I was gonna let you off that easily, did you?
Whoa! I don't believe it.
I know, it's beautiful, isn't it?
Not the scenery, Twilight. Rainbow Dash just tripped me.
She did not.
She did too!
She did not, and if you slowed down and looked where you're going, like me, you'd see that you tripped over a rock.
What? Oh, hayseed! Now I got a lot of ground to make up to catch Rainbow.
Just be careful!
See you at the finish line!
I don't believe it. After a huge setback, Applejack is back at the front of the pack.
She's the head of the pack, all right. The pick of the litter! The cat's pajamas! Oh wait, why would Applejack take some poor kitty's PJs? That's not very sporting of her.
Oookay... Let's get back to the race.
Not so fast, Applejack! This race isn't over yet!
It is for you. Heh.
Whoa! Guh, I don't believe it, Applejack tripped me.
Don't you ponies ever look where you're going? You tripped on a stump. See?
Oh, I see. A big cheater is what I see.
Rainbow, Applejack would never cheat. It was just an accident.
Sure it was. I mean, yeah, I'm sure it was.
Remember, Rainbow, this is just a game.
Yes, but the rules have changed, and two can play at that game.
Welcome back, Ponyvillians, it's me, Pinkie Pie.
And Spike. Looks like Rainbow is doing her best to catch up.
I'm not sure how ketchup is going to help her in this contest. Now, in a hot dog eating contest it can make them doggies nice and slippery, but personally, I prefer mustard. How about you, Spike?
Uh... I... like... pickles?
Aaand it looks like Applejack has found herself in quite a pickle as Rainbow overtakes her.
Look, ma, no wings.
As the racers enter Equestria's Whitetail Wood, Rainbow Dash is back in the lead.
Ugh. Hey, Rainbow!
[gasp] Why, that little cheater did that on purpose. It's on.
Nice one, Rainbow.
Later!
[gasp] Aaa!
Oh my, Whitetail Wood is just lovely. Hey, Rainbow, shouldn't you be up ahead?
[chuckling] I'm sure I'll win now.
Except that the other racers just passed you.
Oh horse apples... See ya!
Applejack, what are you doing up here?
There aren't even any trees.
Er, no, but the sign's pointed this way... Rainbow. Mind giving me a lift?
What the hay?! You said no flying!
No, I said no wings.
I must say, Spike, that this has been the most interesting Running of the Leaves in Equestria history!
With the most interesting announcing.
But it isn't the running that's been fascinating. It's the lack of running!
[grunt] Aaa!
Whoa!
Whoa!
Forgive me, girls. I know I'm not an athlete, but shouldn't the Running of the Leaves actually involve running?
You know, I think Twilight's right.
You do?
Yeah! If you wanna beat me, you better... RUUUN!
Once again, Rainbow Dash and Applejack are neck and neck, jockeying for position. Applejack inches ahead, now it's Rainbow, it's Applejack, it's Rainbow Dash, it's Applejack--
Oh no, she di'int!
Oh yes, she di'id!
Cut it out!
No, you cut it out!
You started it.
And now I'm gonna finish it.
Oh no, you won't.
Oh yes, I will. [grunt] That's it! All bets are off!
Oh no, you don't.
It's Applejack, it's Rainbow Dash, it's Applejack, it's Rainbow Dash--
I won!
No, I won!
I won!
You tied!
Tied?!
For first?
For last!
Last?!
Then who won?
You?!
Oh no, but I did get fifth place, which is rather good considering I've never run a race before.
What? How's that even possible?
You ran so slow, and looked at the scenery.
Exactly. I paced myself, just like my book said. Then at the end, when all the other ponies were worn out, I sprinted to the finish.
I don't believe it. Twilight beat us.
Well, with all your horsing around, it was quite easy.
You're right, Twilight. Our behavior was just terrible.
We weren't very good sports.
Sounds to me that an important lesson was learned.
Princess Celestia?!
W-What are you doin' here?
Fall is one of my favorite seasons, so I came to celebrate the Running of the Leaves.
I'm sorry you had to see us being such poor sports, Princess.
That's all right, Applejack. Anypony can get swept up in the excitement of competition.
It's important to remember that the friendship is always more important than the competition.
Exactly, Twilight. Now, unfortunately, because the two of you were busy tricking each other instead of shaking down leaves, many of the lovely trees of Equestria are still covered.
Why, Princess, I bet we can knock those leaves down for you lickety-split. Whaddya say, friend? Wanna go for another run?
I'd love to stretch my legs.
Oh, Opalescence. Can't you just picture it? Moi, stepping out in a stunning new gown at the Grand Galloping Gala in Canterlot!
Why, yes! I did make it myself. Thank you so much for asking.
Oh, Opal, of course you can help me. Thank you. What's that? You want to help me more? Oh, aren't you the sweetest thing? Careful now. Don't move. This shouldn't take long at all.
Howdy, Rarity!
Shh... Can't you see Rarity is trying to concentrate?
What do you think she's makin'?
Looks like a dress.
Well, that makes sense. Since this is a dressmaker's shop and all.
Is there something I can help you with?
Oh, so very sorry to trouble you, Rarity, but I need a quick favor. Could you please fix the button for me? It's my dress for the Grand Galloping Gala.
Oh, no, no, no! You can't wear this... old thing. You need a glamorous new outfit for the Gala and I'll make it for you. No problem at all. It will be my pleasure!
Oh, that's really sweet of you to offer, Rarity, but I can't let you do that. It would be so much work. This dress is fine.
Twilight Sparkle. I insist on making you a new dress.
But...
Not another word! I won't take no for an answer.
Well, in that case... Thank you for your generosity, Rarity. Knowing your handiwork, I'm sure it will be absolutely beautiful.
Let me guess, Applejack. You don't want a new gown either.
Gown? Shoot. I was just gonna wear my old work duds.
You can't possibly be serious, Applejack! You absolutely must wear formal attire.
Hm... Nah.
What if I just spruce up your... duds for you a little bit?
Okay, sure. Why not? Since you're up for it and all. Just don't make them too... frou-frou-y.
Deal!
Look out below!
Sorry. New trick. Didn't quite work.
Hmm... [gasp] Idea! I'll make you an outfit for the Gala too, Rainbow Dash.
Outfit for the what now?
I'll make one for you and you and all of you. Oh! And of course Pinkie and Fluttershy too. Oh, and when I'm done, we can hold our very own fashion show!
What a great idea! If you're sure you can handle it.
Oh, it'll be a little bit of work, but it will be a wonderful boost for my business. Plus, fun!
Oh, I love fun things!
Then it's settled. We'll have a fashion show starring us.
So all you have to do is make a different, stunning, original, amazing outfit for one, two, three, four, five... plus yourself, six ponies? And lickety split?
Oh, Applejack. You make it sound as if it's going to be hard.
Thread by thread, stitching it together Twilight's dress, cutting out the pattern snip by snip Making sure the fabric folds nicely It's the perfect color and so hip Always gotta keep in mind my pacing Making sure the clothes' correctly facing I'm stitching Twilight's dress
Yard by yard, fussing on the details Jewel neckline, don't you know a stitch in time saves nine? Make her something perfect to inspire Even though she hates formal attire Gotta mind those intimate details Even though she's more concerned with sales It's Applejack's new dress
Dressmaking's easy, for Pinkie Pie something pink Fluttershy something breezy Blend color and form, [To Opalescence] Do you think it looks cheesy?
Something brash, perhaps quite fetching Hook and eye, couldn't you just simply die? Making sure it fits forelock and crest Don't forget some magic in the dress Even though it rides high on the flank Rainbow won't look like a tank I'm stitching Rainbow's dress
Piece by piece, snip by snip Croup, dock, haunch, shoulders, hip Thread by thread, primmed and pressed Yard by yard, never stressed And that's the art of the dress!
That's it. Keep them closed. Don't look. Okay, you can look now!
These are your new outfits. What do you think of your old duds now, Applejack? Pretty swanky, are they not? And Twilight! I made this dress for you and I designed each outfit theme to perfectly reflect each pony's unique personality. Oh, it took me forever to get the colors right on this one, Rainbow Dash, but I did it. Oh, and it turned out beautiful, don't you think? And I know you are going to love yours, Fluttershy. It just sings spring! And Pinkie Pie, look! Pink! Your favorite! Aren't they all amazing?
Wow... They're...
Yeah, they're...
They sure are... somethin'.
Yes! Something.
I love something! Something is my favorite!
It's... nice.
But what's the matter? Don't you like them?
They're very nice...
And we're plumb grateful 'cause you worked so hard on them.
Mine's just not as cool as I was imagining. She asked.
I guess what we're all saying is that they're just not what we had in mind.
That's okay. Not a problem. There's plenty more where that came from. They were only a first pass. You're my friends and I want you to be 110% satisfied. Not to worry, I'll redo them.
Oh, Rarity. You don't have to do that. They're fine.
I want them to be better than just fine. I want you to think they're absolutely perfect.
Are you sure? I mean, we wouldn't wanna impose.
Oh, it's no imposition. Really, I insist.
Well, in that case... Thank you again, Rarity.
What have I gotten myself into?
Hello? You wanted to see me, Rarity?
Fluttershy! Your new-new gown's ready. I completely revised it and I know you're going to love it. What do you think?
I... love it.
Oh, you're just saying that.
No, no. I do. It's... nice.
"Nice"?
Nice.
If you don't like it, you should just tell me.
Oh, but I do like it.
Like it or love it?
Um... both?
Which is it?
Please stop asking me this, I...
Well, just tell me what you really think.
No, that's okay...
Tell me.
No... it's fine...
Tell me!
I... like it...
Tell me, tell me, tell-me-tell-me-tell-me!
All right! Since you really wanna know... [inhales] The armscye's tight, the middy collar doesn't go with the shawl lapel, the hems are clearly machine-stitched, the pleats are uneven, the fabric looks like toile, you used a backstitch here when it clearly called for a topstitch or maybe a traditional blanket stitch, and the overdesign is reminiscent of prêt-à-porter and not true French haute couture. [pauses] But, uh... you know... um, whatever you want to do is fine.
Now, the stars on my belt need to be technically accurate. Orion has three stars on his belt, not four.
Stitch by stitch, stitching it together Deadline looms, don't you know the client's always right? Even if my fabric choice was perfect Gotta get them all done by tonight Pinkie Pie, that color's too obtrusive Wait until you see it in the light I'm sewing them together!
Don't you think my gown would be more "me" with some lollipops?
Well, I think...
Balloons?
Well...
Do it!
Hour by hour, one more change I'm sewing them together, take great pains Fluttershy, you're putting me in a bind Rainbow Dash, what is on your mind? Oh my gosh, there's simply not much time Don't forget, Applejack's duds must shine
Dressmaking's easy, every customer's call Brings a whole new revision Have to pick up the pace, still hold to my vision
That constellation is Canis Major, not Minor.
French haute couture, please.
Ugh...
What if it rains? Galoshes!
More balloons! Oh no, that's too many balloons. More candy! Oh, less candy. Oh wait, I know. Streamers!
Streamers?
Whose dress is this?
Streamers it is.
What?
Aren't you going to tell me to change something too?
No, I just want my dress to be cool.
Do you not like the color?
The color's fine, just make it look cooler.
Do you not like the shape?
The shape's fine, just make the whole thing... you know, cooler. It needs to be about 20% cooler.
All we ever want is indecision
All we really like is what we know
Gotta balance style with adherence
Making sure we make a good appearance
Even if you simply have to fudge it
Make sure that it stays within our budget
Got to overcome intimidation Remember, it's all in the presentation!
Piece by piece, snip by snip Croup, dock, haunch, shoulders, hip Bolt by bolt, primmed and pressed Yard by yard, always stressed And that's the art of the dress!
Oh, Opal. These are the ugliest dresses I've ever made.
Okay. I did exactly what each of you asked for. Now don't hold back. Let me know what you really think.
Oh my!
It's... perfect!
It's cool!
Why, they're the best duds I ever did see.
It's exactly what I asked for!
Thank you, Rarity.
Are you as happy with them as we are? Huh? Huh? Huh?
Well, I'm... happy that all of you are happy. I'm just relieved to finally be done.
You are never gonna believe this! You've heard of Hoity Toity?
The bigwig fashion hotshot in Canterlot?
Uh-huh. He heard about your fashion show. Well, maybe I happened to mention it to him... He's coming here all the way from Canterlot to see your work, Rarity!
Whoa, Nelly! You could sell a ton o' dresses to this guy. Your business will be boomin'!
Wow!
That's so cool!
I don't believe it!
Hoity Toity? He's coming here? To see THESE dresses?
Yep! Get ready for all of your dreams to come true.
Oh. [gasp] There he is! [deep breaths] Okay. Relax, Rarity. Your friends like their outfits and so will he. [squeals] What's wrong with the lights?! Oh, yes. That means the show's starting. Good.
Since the beginning of time, the elite of Equestria have longed for pony fashions that truly expressed the essence of their very souls. Patiently waiting decades -- no, centuries -- for the perfect pony gown. Today, at long last, Equestria, your wait is over! Let's hear it for the breathtaking designs of Ponyville's own Rarity!
Why's everypony lookin' at us like that?
Oh dear.
You think we overdid it?
Nah. [pause] Okay, maybe a little.
Oh, those amateurish designs look like a piled-on mishmash of everything but a kitchen sink! It's a travesty is what it is. Those outfits are the ugliest things I've ever seen, oh for shame. Who is responsible for subjecting our eyes to these horrors? Not to mention wasting my valuable time.
Rarity [to Opal]: Oh! Hide me.
Come on out and take a bow, Rarity. You worked really hard for this. Yes! All right, woo-hoo! Go, Rarity!
Rarity? You okay in there? You haven't come out for days.
You're not a laughing stock, Rarity...
She kind of is.
Shhh! Come on out and talk to us.
[sobbing] Leave me alone! I vant to be alone! I want to wallow in... whatever it is that ponies are supposed to wallow in! Do ponies wallow in pity? Oh, listen to me, I don't even know what I'm supposed to wallow in! I'm so pathetic!
Now what do we do?
Uh... panic?
That's your answer for everything!
Well, we can't just leave Rarity like this.
She'll become a crazy cat lady!
She only has one cat.
Give her time.
Exile... I guess technically I'd have to move away to live in exile. Where would I go? And what would I pack? Oh, it's going to take me forever to do all of that packing. What are you supposed to pack when you go to exile? Are you supposed to pack warm?
Huh? Opal?
Opal, how did you get up there? Hang on, you poor dear! Mama's coming!
Rainbow Dash?! How dare you strand my poor Opal in a tree?
Well, how else were we gonna get you out here to show you this?
We all finished your dress for you.
Thanks to Fluttershy's freaky knowledge of sewing.
Do you like it?
Like it? Like it?!
Uh-uh. She doesn't like it.
No, I don't like it.
Awwww...
I love it!
Yay!
You ponies did an amazing job. It's exactly the way I imagined it.
We just followed your brilliant design.
Like we should have let you do for our outfits. Those first dresses you designed were perfect.
We're so super sorry.
You worked really hard to make our dresses exactly the way we wanted them. We all saw how well that turned out.
Oh, I forgive you.
Well, that's mighty big of you.
But my whole career is still ruined!
Oh, right. That.
Maybe not.
All right, I haven't got all day.
Take two.
Hello... Oh, this can't be the same designer.
Simply magnificent! And I suddenly have a fierce craving for some Dutch apple pie, candied apples on a stick, apple turnovers, apple cobbler...
Brilliant!
Oh, spectacular!
Now this is a fashion show! All of these dresses are absolutely amazing. Who is responsible? Step forward, show yourself!
Brava! Brava! Magnifico! Encore!
Oh, thank you. Thank you! Oh, thank you so much!
Dear Princess Celestia,
Rarity, my congratulations to you on a most impressive fashion debut. Would you do me the great honor of allowing me to feature your couture in my Best of the Best Boutique in Canterlot?
Now, I'll need you to make a dozen of each dress for me by next Tuesday.
Tuh! Nuh! Uh! Nyuh!
Eyes over here, Spike!
Uh, sorry.
For this to work, it's crucial we keep our concentration totally on the-
Ooh!
Nyuh!
Spike! This magic needs our full attention to make it happen. There's no other way!
I can't help it. Look!
Ugh, never mind her. She's just being Pinkie Pie.
Super-extra Pinkie Pie today.
Hmm... Twitchy twitcha twitcha twitch.
Pinkie Pie? What in the wide, wide world of Equestria are you up to?
Oh! It's my tail! It's my tail! It's a-twitch a-twitchin'! And you know what that means!
Actually, Pinkie, I haven't the slightest idea.
The twitchin' means my Pinkie Sense is telling me that stuff's gonna start falling! You two better duck for cover.
Oh, Pinkie, it's not gonna rain. Why, there's barely even a cloud in the-ugh!
He just said "nice catch" in Frog.
Oh, I'm so, so sorry. You okay, Twilight Sparkle? I just couldn't stand to see the pond getting so over-populated, what with the frogs all hopping into each other and all, so I decided to fly as many as I can on over to Froggy Bottom Bogg.
Of course you did.
[muffled] Bye-bye!
Um... Twilight? You gotta little somethin' on your face there.
Oh, really? Did your Pinkie Sense tell you that, too?
Nah! I could just see it. La-la-la-la-la...
C'mon, Spike, let's continue our practice session where there's a little less commotion.
Wow! That was amazing! Pinkie Pie predicted something would fall, and it did!
Oh, come on. She said that something would fall, and a frog just happened to fall right around the same time. A coincidence, nothing else to it.
My tail! My tail! Twitch-a-twitch! Twitch-a-twitch! Somethin' else is gonna fall!
Oh, Pinkie, please. Nothing else is gonna fa-aaah!
Oh no, Twilight fell! Is it... safe to go help her?
It's okay, my tail stopped twitching. La-la-la-la-la, la-la-la...
Ha ha! That was amazing!
Oh, please.
Uh, Twilight? Why are you hanging out in a ditch?
Because, Pinkie Pie predicted it!
Honestly, Spike, she did not. Two coincidences in a row like this may be unlikely, but it's still easier to believe than twitchy tails that predict the future.
[gasp] Twitchy tail? Pinkie Sense? Whoa! Nyu-uh!
Don't worry, it's safe. Prediction already came true.
Oh, wait. Don't tell me you believe in this stuff, too?
I know it doesn't make much sense, but those of us who have been in Ponyville a while, have learned over time that, if Pinkie's a-twichin', you better listen.
My ears are flopping! My ears are flopping!
Nyuh! What does that mean?!
I'll start a bath for you.
Huh? [chuckles] A bath? This thing keeps on getting more ridiculous by the minute!
Phhhhft.
Sooo, basically, it works like this: I get different, little, niggly feelings and they mean different things. Like when my back is itchy, it means it's my lucky day. And, when my knee gets pinchy, that means something scary's about to happen.
Is your knee pinchy now?
No, but my shoulder's achy. That means there's an alligator in the tub.
[scream] How come your knee didn't get pinchy?! That isn't just scary, it's downright dangerous!
No, it's not, silly! This is my pet alligator, Gummy. He's got no teeth. See? Haha!
Okay, okay... I get it.
Well, I still don't believe all this... "special power" stuff. It's just a bunch of mumbo-jumbo.
What's not to believe? You do magic, what's the difference?
Huge! For one thing, [clears throat] magic is something you study and practice. It only happens when you decide to do it, and it's meant to make something specific that you choose to happen, happen. With you, uh, it makes no sense at all!
That's so not true, Twilight! Sometimes it's a bunch of random things happening to my body at random times that supposedly predict the future. I call 'em "combos".
Combos?
Sure! You know, like, ear flop, then knee twitch, then eye flutter. That means the sky is about to be graced with a beautiful rainbow!
Yeah, sure.
Uh-oh, I feel a combo coming on. Ear flop, eye flutter, knee twitch!
Ugh!
Ughhh... You said that combo meant "beautiful rainbow".
Oh no-no-no-no-no. You're thinking of an ear flop, then knee twitch, then eye flutter. This was an ear flop, then eye flutter, then knee twitch. That usually means "look out for opening doors". You okay?
I don't believe this.
You don't believe because you don't understand.
Hmm...
Okay. Now when you get another twitch, we'll have all kinds of scientific information.
Okie-dokie-lokie!
Any twitches yet?
Nopey-dopey!
Now? Anything?
Wait! Hold on! Uhh, no.
Are you kidding me?! After a whole day of nonstop twitching, now that I've got you all hooked up, you're not getting a single one?
I don't control it, they just come and go.
That makes no sense!
Sometimes you just have to believe in things, even when you can't figure 'em out.
I will not believe in anything I cannot explain.
Wait, hold on, I'm feeling something...
Oh my gosh, what? What is it?!
It's my tummy! That usually means I'm hungry! Let's eat!
Urgh... You know what? [bite] [snap] Just forget it! I don't need to know if this is real or not. I don't need to understand it! I don't even care!
Okie-dokie-lokie. [gasp] Uh-oh. [gasp] Hu-bu-bu-bu-buh!
Pinkie? Have you seen Twilight?
Uh-huh.
Twilight? What are ya doing back there?
Rrrrgh... Did you two plan this?
Plan what?
Urgh! This is ridiculous. This can't be happening. This makes no sense. I have to figure this out.
Twilight?
Ah!
Whoa-oh-uh!
Honestly, Spike, don't you know better than to sneak up on ponies?
Oh, sorry, but, um, well, isn't that what you're doing?
[gasp] No! I'm doing scientific research. I'm observing Pinkie Pie, scientific name: Pinkius Pieicus, in its natural habitat.
Pinkius-whoicus? Hh!
There's something fishy going on with the whole twitchy prediction thing, and I'm getting to the bottom of it. So, shh. Come on, Pinkius Pieicus is on the move.
Hm... Itchy nose...
Aha! That makes no sense. See? She's hiding like something's about to fall from the sky, but a twitchy tail means something's gonna fall from the sky, not an itchy nose.
This proves...
...perhaps conclusively, that—
Gah!
Spike! Where are you going? I'm trying to teach you the value of scientific—
What's she doing now?
Smelling a flower.
Holy guacamole! I wonder what that means?
Probably that the flower smells good. Wait. I'm getting something. Ear flop, eye flutter, knee twitch.
Hold on... You told me that's the combo that says "watch out for opening doors"!
Oh-ho. You really, really believe this stuff, don't you? Here, let me show you there's nothing to be afraid of. You see? I promise you there's nothing to fear from that— Wo-o-ah! Ow! Ugh! Ow! Ow!
Twilight! You came to visit my new apple cellar, how nice. Twi? You okay? Uh, Twi?
Here, let me help you.
Okay, take this down: twitchy tail.
Twitchy tail? [gasp] Twitchy tail!
Hush, Spike! We can't let Pinkie know we're here, remember?
Something's gonna fall, something's gonna fall! Run for your lives. Ah-ha-ha!
Ugh, Spike honestly, you're overreact—
Ugh!
[humming] Hey, Applejack. Whatcha doin'?
Takin' more apples to my new apple cellar. How 'bout you, Pinkie? Whatchu doin'?
Oh, letting Twilight secretly follow me all day without me knowing.
You mean you knew all along?! Why didn't you tell me?
[giggles] Silly, that would've spoiled the secret!
Urgh!
Tail... still twitching?
All done, clear skies from here on in, as far as I can tell— Hu-bu-bu-bu-bu-bu!
Oh no! What does that one mean?
Dunno, never gotten any like it before, but whatever that shudder's about, it's a doozy. Something you'd never expect to happen is gonna happen! Hu-bu-bu-bu-bu hu-bu-bu-bu! And it's gonna happen... at Froggy Bottom Bogg!
[gasp] That's where Fluttershy's headed!
Oh no! Is it about her?
Uh, I'm not sure.
We better go and make sure she's okay.
Calm down, everypony. All we know right now is that Pinkie Pie just got a case of the shivers. That's all.
Guh— Hey! I thought you didn't believe in this stuff?
I don't. I just want to be there to see the look on Pinkie's face when we find out nothing's wrong.
Okie-dokie!
[shivers] Hu-bu-bu-bu-bu-bu!
Cold? Need a jacket or something?
No thanks, I'm fine. [shivers] Hu-bu-bu-bu-bu-bu!
So... Whadda'ya think happened to Fluttershy?
I hope nothin'.
I know, but, whadda'ya think happened?
I'm tryin' not to think about it.
Me too. But I'm thinkin' about it anyway. Like, what if she exploded?
Just exploded? For no reason?
Yeah, like boom!
Whoa!
I know.
What if... What if she exploded, and then... and then exploded again!?
Can you do that? Can you explode twice?
Of course not.
But what if she exploded, and exploded again, and then— ugh!
Will you two stop? She's fine, I'm sure of it.
I hope you're right, for Fluttershy's sake. Look! There's Froggy Bottom Bogg!
Fluttershy?
Fluttershy! You're okay!
Of course.
Phew, what a relief.
I'm so glad everything's all right.
Sorry, I know it's not nice to gloat but... Aha! I told you there was nothing to worry about, and I was right. Pinkie Pie said whatever she was shuddering about was a [cough] doozy, and [cough] and the only [cough] doozy here is how right I am.
Um... Twilight?
Pinkie's made a lot of predictions today but [cough] ugh, what is that smell? But what we've shown here is that there's no point in believing [cough] in anything you can't see for yourself.
W-Well t-then, s-see what's b-b-behind you, Twilight!
I see it... But I don't believe it!
Is that a hydra!?
Who cares? Run!
Pinkie! Come on!
Oh, I'm so sorry.
Ah!
Everypony up that hill!
He-e-elp!
Coming, Spike! Hang on!
I think we're gonna make it.
But Pinkie's still shuddering!
Oh, lookie there, it stopped. O-h-h-h, t-h-e-r-e i-t i-s a-g-a-i-n.
Ugh, he'll be up here in no time! Quick, one at a time, cross!
Nyu-uh! Uh, do you know any spells for turning a hydra into a mouse?
No.
How about a squirrel?
No!
How 'bout—
No small rodents of any kind!
That's too bad.
A hop, skip, and a... jump!
Whoa-ho!
Whoa-oa-oa-oa-oa!
He's too close. I'll distract him. You two go, now!
Oh... What would a brave pony like Rainbow Dash do? Chaaarge!
T-T-T-twilight!
T-T-T-twilight! You have to jump!
I'll never make it!
You'll be fine!
I will not!
It's your only ho-o-ope! You have to take a leap of faith!
Y-ugh! No! Oh no! Noooo! WA-A-A-AH! Ugh! Blegh!
I knew you could do it, Twilight!
I don't know how it happened; coincidence, dumb luck, or what, but you said there'd be a doozy here at Froggy Bottom Bogg, and I'd say we just had ourselves one heck of a doozy. I mean that hydra—
Pinkie?
That wasn't it.
Huh?
What wasn't what?
What are you talking about, Pink?
The hydra wasn't the doozy.
I'm still getting the shudders. Oo-o-oh, oo-o-oh. You see? There it is again. Whatever the doozy was at Froggy Bottom Bogg, my Pinkie Sense says it still hasn't happened.
Huh? But I— WHAT?! The hydra wasn't the doozy?! How could it not be the doozy?! What could be doozier than that?!
Dunno, but it just wasn't it.
Rrrgh... [flames and growls] Ooh... I give up...
Give what up, Twi?
The fight. I can't fight it anymore. I don't understand how, why, or what, but Pinkie Sense somehow... makes sense. I don't see how it does, but it just does. Just because I don't understand doesn't mean it's not true.
Y-Y-Y-You m-m-mean you b-b-b-believe?
Eeyup, I guess I do.
Oo-woo-oo-oo-oo, woo-oo-oo-oo-oh, woo-oo-oo-oo-oo-oo-ooh. Ooh! [gasp] That was it. That's the doozy.
Bbrrbbrrbbrr.
What? What is?
You believing. I never expected that to happen. That was the doozy, oh and, oh what a doozy of a doozy it was! La-la-la-la-la...
Oh, good, Spike, you're here. Take a letter.
With pleasure, Twilight.
Dear Princess Celestia, I'm happy to report that— Spike, what have I been saying about focus?
Spike: I know, but I... Well...
What's wrong, Spike? Never thought you'd see me with an umbrella hat on?
Not really, no.
Pinkie's tail's a-twitchin'. What else can I do?
I am happy to report that I now realize there are wonderful things in this world you just can't explain, but that doesn't necessarily make them any less true. It just means you have to choose to believe in them, and sometimes it takes a friend to show you the way.
Honk!
Honk.
Always your faithful student, Twilight Sparkle.
There it goes again.
I wonder what's gonna drop outta the sky this time?
You never know.
Twitchy tail? Holy guacamole!
Now, what have we learned?
Loss of control.
Good.
Screaming and hollering.
Yes, and most importantly?
Passion!
Right! So now that you know the elements of a good cheer, let's hear one.
[inhales] Yay.
... Ugh. You're gonna cheer for me like that? Louder.
Yay.
Louder!
Yay.
Louder!
[deep breath] [quietly] Yaaay.
Ugh...
Too loud?
Yay.
[deep breath] And now, phase one of my routine.
Wooo.
Phase two.
Way to go.
[sigh] Last one. Thank you so much for helping me clean up all these books, guys. It was a crazy week of studying.
Rainbow Dash, you rock! Woohoo. [gasp] Did my cheering do that?
Hehe. Sorry about that ladies. That was a truly feeble performance.
Actually, it wasn't all bad. I particularly liked it when you made the clouds spin.
Ugh. I'm not talking about my performance, I'm talking about yours. That feeble cheering!
What are you two arguing about?
Were we arguing? I'm sorry.
[grunt] I wish you guys could come to Cloudsdale to see me compete in the Best Young Flyer Competition.
What's that?
It's where all the greatest Pegasus flyers get together and show off their different flying styles! Some are fast! [makes car sounds] And some are graceful. Whoa, whoa, whoa!
Golly. I'd love to see you strut yer stuff in that competition.
Yeah. I wish you guys could be there. Fluttershy's a great support, but her cheering isn't exactly inspirational.
Ooh! I'd love to see you make a sonic rainboom! It's like, the most coolest thing ever! Even though I've never actually seen it, but I mean come on! It's a sonic rainboom! How not cool could it possibly not be?!
What's a sonic rainboom?
You really need to get out more. The sonic rainboom is legendary! When a Pegasus like Rainbow Dash gets going sooo fast... Boom! A sonic boom and a rainbow can happen all at once!
And Rainbow Dash here's the only pony to ever pull it off!
It was a long time ago... I was just a filly.
Yeah, but you're gonna do it again, right?
Are... you kidding? I'm the greatest flyer to ever come out of Cloudsdale! I could do sonic rainbooms in my sleep.
Wow. If you pull that off, you'll win the crown for sure!
The grand prize is an entire day with the Wonderbolts. A whole day of flying with my lifelong heroes... It'll be a dream come true!
Yay.
I'm gonna go rest up. Don't wanna over prepare myself, y'know. Hehe. You, on the other hand, better keep practicing. I need a cheering section to match my spectacular performance.
She's practiced that move a hundred times, and she's never even come close to doing it. I don't know if I can cheer loud enough to help her.
Well, guess we better get this cleaned up... again.
Go on, go on.
Go on what?
Find a spell that will get us wingless ponies into Cloudsdale. Didn't you see how nervous she was?
Nervous? Have you spit yer bit or somethin'? She was tootin' her own horn louder than the brass section of a marching band!
Oh, puh-lease. I have put on enough fashion shows to recognize stage fright when I see it. We've got to find a way to be there for her. Now go on!
Owaa! Ugh. How am I supposed to find a flight spell in this mess?
A flight spell? One sec. Page twenty-seven.
How'd you do that?
It landed on my face when Rainbow Dash knocked me into the bookcase.
Here it is! A spell that will allow Earth ponies to fly for three days. Ooh, it looks really difficult... I'm not sure I can do it.
You've got to try!
Okay... But who's gonna volunteer to be the test subject?
I will! For Rainbow Dash, I will go first.
I think it worked!
You've got to learn to be assertive, Fluttershy. Don't be afraid to speak up.
"Dumb-Bell": Well, well, well. What do we have here?
It's our old friend Rainbow Crash!
"Dumb-Bell": Get kicked outta any flight schools lately?
I didn't get kicked out.
"Dumb-Bell": Face it, Rainbow Crash. Flight school had too many rules, and not enough naptimes for you.
Huh, ask her about the sonic rainboom.
"Dumb-Bell": That's nothing but an old mare's tale. You don't have the skills to try something like that.
Now wait just a minute! Oh, I'm sorry. I'm trying to be more assertive. Anyhow... She is going to do a sonic rainboom!
"Dumb-Bell": No she's not, 'cause there's no such thing!
Then show up at the Cloudeseum and see for yourself! ...If you're free.
[within laughter] Yeah, I'll be free.
"Dumb-Bell": Oh, don't worry. We'll be there!
See you then, Rainbow Crash!
Did you see that? I was so assertive!
[sigh] Those guys are right. I'll never be able to do it.
But, Rainbow Dash. Just because you've failed the sonic rainboom a hundred thousand times in practice doesn't mean you won't be able to do it in front of an entire stadium, full of impatient, super-critical sportsfan ponies.
Aaaaaah! What do I do?! Everypony's gonna see me fail! The Wonderbolts will never let a loser like me join. Princess Celestia will probably banish me to the Everfree Forest! My life is ruined!
Rare...
Rare?! The sonic rainboom is way more than rare!
Rarity?
Rarity! Are you... flying?!
I most certainly am! Aren't my wings smashing?! Twilight made them for me. I just adore them! Why so shocked? We couldn't leave our favorite flyer without a big cheering section!
"We"? I... I can't believe it!
It's incredible!
This is so cool! You guys made it!
Sure did!
Wait! How'd you do that? Only Pegasus ponies can walk on clouds.
Haha. Pretty cool, huh?
I found a spell that makes temporary wings, but it was too difficult to do more than once. So I found an easier spell that lets the rest of us walk on clouds.
And we came to cheer you to victory!
To be honest, I was starting to get just the teeniest, tiniest bit nervous. But I feel a lot better now that you guys are here. Hey, we've got some time before the competition. Why don't Fluttershy and I show you around Cloudsdale?
Rarity, Applejack, Yes!
Here it is: the greatest city in the sky!
Oooh! Aaah!
[in mirror] Oooh! Aaah!
Uhh... Some of the greatest Pegasi in history came from Cloudsdale!
Oh, wait for me!
Those wings are gorgeous!
Why, thank you!
Be careful with those wings, Rarity. They're made from gossamer and morning dew, and they're incredibly delicate.
Don't worry, Twilight. I'm sure they can't get worn out from too much attention.
Since we're up here, I'd sure like to get a look at where the weather's made.
Great idea! C'mon, girls. To the weather factory!
This is where they make the snowflakes. Each one is hoofmade. As you can see, it's a delicate operation.
[gasp] Ooh, the snowflakes look even better from up here.
We better move on before Rarity ruins winter and causes a drought.
And here's where they make the rainbows!
[slurp] [pants] Spicyyyyyy!...
Yeah, rainbows aren't really known for their flavor.
"Dumb-Bell": [offscreen] Whoa!
"Dumb-Bell": Oh, where'd you get those amazing wings? I want a pair!
Hmm... Yeah, I guess I could see that.
"Dumb-Bell": Oh, hey look, it's Rainbow Crash again!
Heheheyeah! Rainbow... Umm... Eyah... Crash!
Rarity! What're you doing talking to these guys?
Oh, they were just admiring my wings, Rainbow Dash.
"Dumb-Bell": Yeah, you should forget the sonic rainboom and just get yourself some wings like these!
Oohh...
Uhh... C'mon, girls. Why don't we go see how clouds are made? Don't listen to them. You're gonna win that competition for sure!
Are you kidding? I can't do the sonic rainboom, and just look at these boring, plain old feathered wings. I'm doomed!
What, these old things? Go ahead, everypony. Photos are encouraged.
Rarity, we're supposed to be helping Rainbow Dash relax, remember? Put your wings away and stop showing off!
Oh, pfft. How can you ask me to put away perfection?
Waa-haa-haa!
Rainbow Dash, are you okay? You don't look so good.
[panting] Of course! Why wouldn't I be okay? Everyone's so in love with Rarity's wings that they won't even notice when I totally blow it in the Best Young Flyer's Competition.
Hey! There's an idea! YOU should enter the competition!
Yeah! I could watch you fly all day long!
There really isn't anypony who uses their wings quite like me. Perhaps I should compete.
WHAT?!
What am I gonna DO?! I'll never win the competition now...
I'm going to be a while!
Fillies and gentlecolts! Please rise and join me in welcoming our beloved Princess Celestia!
Please welcome our celebrity judges for the Best Young Flyer Competition: the Wonderbolts!
And now, let's find out who will take the prize as this year's best young flyer!
Okay, contestant number one, you're up.
Eyah!
Okay, number two, let's go.
Umm...
C'mon, c'mon, we ain't got all day!
She's talking to you!
Dr. Oh. Umm... Oh, I guess that's me!
Okay, number four, time to go.
I'm number four, and I need just one more itsy-bitsy minute. Be a dear and have somepony go ahead of me, hmm?
Look, I don't care who it is, but somepony's gotta go on!
Let's do this!
Uhh... What am I gonna do?
I loved number seven. Doing fifteen barrel rolls in a row can't be easy.
My favorite is number ten. She just looked like such a nice pony.
Hmm... Wonder how come we haven't seen Rainbow Dash or Rarity yet. The competition's almost over.
Number fifteen, let's go!
Rarity... is ready!
Look, ladies. I don't know what to tell you. There's only time for one more performance. If you both want to compete, you'll just have to go out there together!
Well, Rainbow Dash? Shall we?
And now, for our final competitor of the day, contestant number fifteen! Uhh... And apparently contestant number four...
Good luck, Rainbow Dash. Just do your best. I hope you don't mind, but I took the liberty of changing our music. That "rock and roll" doesn't really match my wings.
[gulp] C'mon, Rainbow Dash. You can do this. Just remember the routine. Phase one.
Oof. Waaah!
Nice work, Rainbow Crash!
Time for phase two.
Look! Phase two is working.
And now for my grand finale. I will fly right up to the sun and beam my beautiful wings over the whole city of Cloudsdale! [gasp and squeal] They'll be talking about it for years!
Looks like this is my last chance to turn things around. Phase three. The sonic [gulp] rainboom. Wings, don't fail me now!
[panting] Look upon me, Equestria, for I... am... Rarity!
Oh no! Her wings evaporated into thin air!
Ooh!
Aah!
Uuh!
Hold on, Rarity! I'm coming!
Oh, I can't look!
A sonic rainboom! She did it! She did it! Wooo!
Whoa.
A sonic rainboom! Wooo! Yeah!
I did it. I did it!
[sigh] You sure did. Oh thank you, Rainbow Dash. You saved my life!
Oh yeah. I did that too. Ha, best day ever!
I want to apologize to all of you for getting so carried away with my... beautiful wings. I guess I just lost my head.
It's okay.
Oh, don't worry about it, kiddo.
We still love you.
And I'm especially sorry that I was so thoughtless as to jump into the contest at the last minute after you had worked so hard to win it. Can you ever ever forgive me?
Aw, it's okay. Everything turned out all right, right? I just wish I could have met the Wonderbolts when they were awake.
[gasp] Ohmygoshohmygoshohmygoshohmygoshohmygosh!
So you're the little pony who saved our lives. We really wanted to meet you, and say thanks.
Ohmygoshohmygoshohmygoshohmygoshohmygosh!
Princess.
Hello, Twilight Sparkle, and hello to your friends too.
Princess Celestia, I am sorry I ruined the competition. Rainbow Dash here really is the best flyer in Equestria.
I know she is, my dear. That's why, for her incredible act of bravery and her spectacular sonic rainboom, I'm presenting the grand prize for Best Young Flyer to this year's winner, Miss Rainbow Dash!
Ohmygosh ohmygosh ohmygosh ohmygosh ohmygosh ohmygosh ohmygosh ohmygosh ohmygosh ohmygosh ohmygosh!
So Twilight Sparkle, did you learn anything about friendship from this experience?
I did Princess, but I think Rarity learned even more than me.
I certainly did. I learned how important it is to keep your hooves on the ground, and be there for your friends.
Excellent. Well done, Rarity.
This really is the best day ever!
"Dumb-Bell": Uhh, hey, Rainbow Crash.
Dash!
"Dumb-Bell": Oh! Uhh... Sorry. Rainbow Dash. Uhh, we just wanted to congratulate you on winning the competition.
That sonic rainboom was awesome!
Heh, thanks, guys.
"Dumb-Bell": Uhh, we're really sorry we gave you such a hard time before.
Aww, that's okay. Don't worry about it.
"Dumb-Bell": Hey. Do you want to hang out with us? Maybe you could show us how you did that incredible trick!
Sorry, boys... But I've got plans!
Where'd I put that? Ohh, I thought I already...
Ohh, and I can't forget I've got to... oh, how am I ever gonna get this done?
Are you sure I can't help? I could—
No!
Maybe just a—
No thanks!
How about—
Just stand over there.
But—
Where you'll be out of the way. Ribbon, ribbon! Where's the ribbon?!
I got it!
Whoa!
Aah!
Um, I-I'll just go and stand over there, where I'll be... out of the way.
Won't you at least let me help you clean up?
No. You've helped me quite enough.
I'm sorry, sis! I just thought that if I could help, I might find my special gift and finally earn my cutie mark.
I understand. It's just that... I need this time to fill this order without any... complications.
Okay, all done. Now, back to work. I've lost a lot of time, and I cannot have any more interruptions.
Oh, what now?!
Oh, sorry. I thought the "open" sign meant you were open, but I must have been mistaken.
[gasps] Fluttershy! Forgive me! I was so wrapped up in my work that I forgot you were bringing Opalescence back from her grooming!
No worries, Rarity. I've left her there in the basket.
Oh, she looks great! I just don't understand how you're able to do it! I can't get near her without getting a swipe from her claws.
Ahh! Did you use... the Stare on her?
Oh, no! I wouldn't! I couldn't! I-I don't really have any control over when that happens. I-It just happens. No, I'm just good with animals. It's my special gift, you know?
Well, you should have a picture of Opal as a cutie mark instead of those butterflies.
Ooh, ooh, oh, oh, oh, oh! Maybe I can be good with animals, too!
Or not.
I'm sorry I can't invite you to stay and chat, Fluttershy. I've bitten off a bit more than I can chew with this order.
But you're not eating anything.
No, Sweetie, it's an expression. It means that I've taken on more work than I can handle. I've got twenty of these special robes to make tonight! They're due in Trottingham tomorrow morning.
See? I've lined them in a special gold silk. It took so long to make, but I think it adds just the right touch, don't you?
These are lovely, but twenty by tonight? How will you get it all done?
Well, I, uh...
Oh, oh, oh! Maybe I could... just... just stand over here and watch.
I'll manage.
Well, maybe I should get out of your mane so you can work.
Hi, Fluttershy! Hi, Rarity!
Hello, uh, girls...
Hey, Sweetie Belle!
Scootaloo! Apple Bloom!
You ready for tonight?
Yup! Cutie mark planning session is a go!
Tonight is the night we each try to find our own special talent.
Even if it takes us all night!
I'm ready! You ready?
Very ready!
Cutie Mark Crusader sleepover at Rarity's! Yay!
And... look what I made us!
Oh, wow! [laughter, gasps] That's so cool! Oooh!
What does that patch on your cape mean?
The Cutie Mark Crusaders! Yay!
We're on a crusade, a mission!
To find our cutie marks!
Yup. And look. I lined them with this special gold silk. It took sooo long to make, but I think it adds just the right touch, don't you?
Oooooh!
Sweetie Belle! What have you done? That was the last of the gold silk! Oh, now I'll have to make more! Oh, I hope I can make more. I'm gonna have to work all night! Which means... Sorry, girls, I'm afraid the Crusaders sleepover is cancelled.
What?!
I just won't have any time to watch you if I want to get these robes delivered on time.
But—
No buts this time. I'm sorry, Sweetie Belle. It's just the way it has to be.
Awwww...
I, uh, I suppose I could take them for the night.
I couldn't ask you to do that.
Oh, it's no problem at all.
Have you met my sister and her friends? A problem is all it would be.
Did I have a problem with Opal? You've seen how well I handle small creatures!
I suppose that's true... and I do have a lot of work to do...
Come on, it'll be fun.
I assure you, they're quite a handful.
These sweet little angels?
Well... all right.
Cutie Mark Crusader sleepover at Fluttershy's cottage! Yay!
So cute. W-wait for me!
Hmmm...
Oh, won't this be ever so fun? We can have a nice little tea party, and braid each others' tails, and sit quietly and color, and tell each other fairy tales, and—
Hello, Fluttershy.
Oh! Hello, Twilight. Where are you off to?
I'm heading to the Everfree Forest to Zecora's to get some of my favorite tea.
Th-The Everfree Forest? Ah, you'll be careful, won't you?
Of course! How about you? What are you doing with the girls?
Rarity has a big order to fill tonight, so I volunteered to take the girls over to my cottage for a sleepover.
Wow. Sounds like everypony has their hooves full today. Taking care of those three fillies all by yourself? You sure you can handle it?
What? These sweet little angels? They'll be no problem at all.
Wow! Look at this place! What's that? Are those chickens?
[to herself] No... problem at all. [normal] Okay, girls, uh, what should we do?
I'm gonna get my mark first!
Girls?
Nuh-uh!
Should we—
I am!
Girls, okay, now settle—
I'm staying up all night!
Me, too!
Me, three!
I-I know you're excited, but— girls, oh, oh, careful with the— oh, ah, girls— [huffs] So! What do you wanna do? Play a game?
We are the Cutie Mark Crusaders!
And we want to crusade for our cutie marks!
And, and, and, we, um— yeah! What they said!
Mmm, I don't know... how about a nice quiet little tea party?
Or... we could go adventuring in the Everfree Forest!
Yeah!
Oh, no! The Everfree Forest is much too dangerous. It's filled with far too many strange creatures.
But you could go with us and we could catch those creatures. We could be, umm... creature catchers!
Yay! Cutie Mark Crusader creature catchers!
Arrrr! I am a dangerous creature from the Everfree Forest! Rrrarr!
Halt, dangerous creature of the Everfree Forest. I am Sweetie Belle, the creature catcher, and I'm here to catch you!
You can never catch me! I am far too powerful and dangerous!
You cannot run from me!
Raaaar!
Um, oh, maybe that's not such a— now, girls, how about we do some nice coloring? Doh—
Come back, dangerous creature, so I can catch you!
Never!
Careful... you don't...
...break anything.
Sorry, Fluttershy.
Yeah, sorry.
I guess we aren't creature catchers.
Oh, girls, it's okay. I—
I know! We could be Cutie Mark Crusader carpenters!
C-carpenters?
Hammer!
Hammer.
Hammer!
Hammer. Hammer! ...Hammer.
Um ... that doesn't look like a table.
We were making a table?
Somepony needs to put this thing out of its misery.
We are definitely not Cutie Mark Carpenters.
Who wants a picture of a hammer on their flank anyway?
Well, now that we've gotten that out of the way, how about a game?
A game?
It's called "Shhh!"
What's that?
I lose!
Me too!
Me three!
Okay, now what can we do? Oooh! How about Cutie Mark Crusader coal miners?
Yeah!
No!
Awwww!
I mean, it's time for bed, don't you think? Aren't you excited to get all toasty and warm in your snuggly-wuggly widdle beds?
Snuggly-wuggly? But we have more crusadin' to do!
We've got plans!
And capes!
Um, okay, um. Maybe the crusading can wait until morning? When it's light? And not so... dark?
How are we gonna find our special talent in our sleep?
[blows out candle] Maybe you'll have a lovely little dream about your special talent.
But we're not even tired!
How about I sing you a lullaby?
Mm-hmm, yeah!
                               Hush now, quiet now It's time to lay your sleepy head Hush now, quiet now It's time to go to bed
I know this one!
Oh, how wonderful! Why don't you sing it with me?
Hush now! Quiet now! It's time to lay your sleepy head! Said hush now! Quiet now! It's time to go to bed!
Okay Sweetie, that was...
Driftin' (driftin') off to sleep! Exciting day behind you! Driftin' (driftin') off to sleep! Let the joy of dream land find you!
Thank you Sweetie, um...
Hush now! Quiet now! Lay your sleepy head! Said hush now! Quiet now! It's time to go to bed!
Ow!
What is that?
[gasp] Girls!
Fluttershy, your chickens are on the loose!
I wonder what could have caused that...
Don't worry, Fluttershy, the Cutie Mark Crusaders will handle this!
Cutie Mark Crusader chicken herders! Yay!
No, I don't think that's a— ah, come back! Please!
Come on, girls, the chickens are fine— oh, girls, um... girls!
Come on, in you go.
There's some good chickens. Okay, you three. Isn't it about time you got into bed?
But—
Please?
So, no more crusading for tonight, all right?
Yes, Fluttershy!
We promise, Fluttershy!
Good night, Fluttershy!
Okay, good night.
Okay, so what kind of crusading do we do next?
There's not much we can do from this room... unless we become Cutie Mark Crusader cottage cleaners.
N-no, thanks.
Well, we have to think of somethin'. We can't just waste this opportunity to find out what our special talents are. Hey, girls! Look! Some of the chickens may have escaped!
Into the forest!
[whispering] Cutie Mark Crusaders chicken rescuers are go!
[sigh] It really wasn't that hard ... I mean, all I needed to do was just show them who's in charge. Nothing's gonna get past Fluttershy! Good with animals, good with kids.
[whispering] Wait up!
Mmm, peace and quiet. [gasps] Too quiet. [gasps] Girls? Girls? Elizabeak! She's missing! Girls?! [gasps] Oh, no! They must have gone looking for my missing chicken! Which means... they must have gone into... [gasp] [gulp] The Everfree Forest!
Here, chick-chick-chick-chick-chick! Brawck, bawk-bawk-bawk, brawck!
What are you doing?
Callin' for the chicken!
That is not how you call a chicken.
Oh, and you know how to call a chicken?
I know that's not the way.
Then show me.
I don't have to show you!
You're just chicken!
Am not!
Oh, wait, now I know how to call a chicken! Scootaloo! Scoot-scootalooooo!
That's so funny I forgot to laugh.
You also forgot how to call a chicken!
Why, you...
Come on, guys, we're not gonna find the chicken or our cutie marks by arguing.
Maybe that's our special talent. Arguin'!
Is not!
Is too!
Is not!
Is too! Anything yet?
Nope.
Darn.
Heeeere, chick-chick-chick-chick, baaawk, bawk-bawk-bawk-bawk-bawk-bawk-bawk, b-baaaaawk!
[whispering] Girls? [gulp] Girls? [tiny terrified squeak] Oh! Get a hold of yourself, Fluttershy. Just put one hoof in front of the other.
Ahh! What was that?
Oh, no! If you've been turned to stone, it must mean— oh! Oh no, the girls! Don't move. I'll be back for you. Girls!
Is not!
Is too!
Is not!
Is too!
Girls! Our special talent is not arguing. Besides, what would the cutie mark of somepony whose talent is arguing even look like?
Girls? Girls?
Fluttershy?
Girls! Thank goodness I found you!
Fluttershy, what—
Girls, we have to leave the forest at once!
But... we haven't found the chicken yet!
There's no time for that. There's a cockatrice on the loose!
A cocka-what now?
A cockatrice! It's a frightening creature with the head of a chicken and the body of a snake. Now, come on!
The head of a chicken and the body of a snake? That doesn't sound scary, that sounds silly!
Why, if I ever saw one of them cockathingies face-to-face, I'd laugh at how silly it was.
No! Never look one in the eye!
If you look a cockatrice in the eye—
The chicken!
Girls! Wait!
Here, chick-chick-chick-chick-chick!
[chicken clucking
There he is!
Two chickens?
I thought only one escaped!
Grab them both!
See? Now we have to—
Girls, please. Girls— now listen to me, girls, I— please!
Girls! Behind me, now!
You! Just who do you think you are, going around turning others into stone?
You should be ashamed of yourself. I have a mind to find your mother and tell her what you've been up to, young man. Now you go over there, and turn Elizabeak and my friend Twilight back to normal, and don't ever let me catch you doing this again. Do you understand me?
Are you girls all right? I was so worried!
Yeah, fine!
Thanks to that stare of yours.
You're like the queen of stares. You're the—
Stare Master!
We're sorry we snuck out of the house and into the forest.
Yeah. We'll listen to you from now on.
We promise.
Oh, you do, do you? Well, you better, or I'll give you... the Stare!
What... what happened?
And that's when it brought you back from stone.
This is gonna make quite a letter to the princess. I was wrong about you. You certainly do know how to handle those girls.
Oh, I wouldn't go that far.
Hmm? How so?
I assumed that I'd be just as good with kids as I am with animals. Boy, was I wrong. I really learned the hard way not to bite off more than I could chew.
You and Rarity both. Good morning, Rarity.
Did you finish all those capes?
[sigh] Just delivered them. I have to admit, if you hadn't come along, I might not have. Thanks again.
Won't you stay for some tea?
I really must get back to the shop and clean up. Girls! Get your things. Time to go. Girls!
Girls! Time to— Girls! Your things! Girls! It's time to— Girls!
Allow me. [clears throat] Girls?
Yes, Fluttershy.
You called?
Go and get your things. Rarity is here to see you home.
Of course, Fluttershy, right away!
Ah, huh, ah, how did you... how did you do that?
I guess I'm just as good with kids as I am with animals.
Thank you, Fluttershy! Bye! Thank you, Stare Master!
Ah, uh, speaking of which, I could use your help with Opal.
Of course. How about later today?
Where are you takin' us?
We're almost there, young'uns.
I've never been here before.
Ouch!
Oh. Sorry.
Are we there yet?
There? Where? What? I don't even know what we're doing.
Here we are.
What are we lookin' at?
I have no idea.
What is that thing?
Cutie Mark Crusaders, welcome to your new clubhouse. [silence] Well, don't thank me all at once. This was my clubhouse when I was your age. Sure it hasn't been used in a while, but it's empty and on a secluded, private part of the farm. And it's all yours. It just needs a little, uh... TLC.
TLC as in Tender Loving Care or Totally Lost Cause?
Applejack! We're supposed to turn this into our new clubhouse?
Well, maybe y'all will get your cutie marks when you discover your talent for... Waaah! [crash] Uh... house cleanin'?
Soup's on!
Whoa! Hi, Scootaloo! Back already? You're amazin' on that scooter.
Thanks! Wow, Apple Bloom. You did all of this?
Yep! I've fixed the broken shutters, sanded off the splinters, rebuilt the roof, painted...
That's so cool. What's Sweetie Belle up to?
There you are, Sweetie Belle! See? I told you we could find her by following her totally awesome voice.
What's that sweet tune you're singing?
Oh. I was just working on our new Cutie Mark Crusaders theme song.
Cool!
Teach us?
Well, I've only come up with one part... but okay!
They all say that you will get your mark When the time is really right
And you know just what you're supposed to do
[loud and off-key] And your talent comes to light!
Well, uh... I'll be, Cutie Mark Crusaders. You've done one fine job with this place. So, what's next?
Well, now that we have a real life clubhouse...
...and a map of Ponyville...
...and a Cutie Mark Crusaders theme song...
Theme song?
We're gonna go out in the world and discover our talents.
A new adventure!
And earn our cutie marks.
We'll leave no stone unturned!
No mountain unclimbed!
No meal uncooked!
No sock unworn!
Well okay then! Sounds like you have a plan. I gotta, uh... Leave no apple unpicked! See y'all later!
Are we ready to get our cutie marks, ponies?
Ready!
I had nothing to do with this.
What is going on here?
Hmm... Well, we sure aren't gettin' our cutie marks for bein' librarians.
Huh. I should think not. What?
Girls, I think you're going about this the wrong way. Instead of trying to do things in areas you're not familiar with, why not try doing things in areas that you already like?
And I have the perfect place to start.
"Showcase your talents..."
"...for all to see."
"Perform in the Ponyville school talent show!"
There'll be all sorts of awards. Best dramatic performance, best comedy act, best magic act... Surely you can find your talent.
This would be the perfect place to discover our talents. Jugglin'!
Acting!
Magic tricks!
Square dancin'!
Tightrope walking!
Tiger taming!
My little ponies! You're missing the point. Think about the things you already enjoy doing. Think about what you're already good at.
Sure! We can do that.
Yeah! Sure we can.
Well, whatever we do, we'll do it as...
...The Cutie Mark Crusaders!
Sweetie Belle! I told you not to touch my things. Come back with my supplies!
We're just borrowing them for the talent show. Don't worry, sis. I promise we'll bring them back.
Thanks, Mr. Breezy. We'll return the fan to you real soon.
What do we need this fan for?
Trust me on this one.
Okay, so that's six wooden planks, four-by-eight plywood, a box of nails, four cans of paint, and four brushes. Anything else?
Yeah. Instructions on how to use six wooden planks, four-by-eight plywood, a box of nails, four cans of paint, and four brushes.
"Ghosts, Goblins and Ghoulish Figures"? Good heavens, girls. What do you need a book like this for?
You'll see. Thanks, Twilight. We'll give it back as soon as we're done with it.
What do you think they're up to?
I have no idea and I don't know if I should be excited or scared to find out.
I'm glad we're doin' this as a team.
Me too. Um... so what are we doing again?
A super awesome dramatic song for the talent show, of course.
Right! With super-cool scenery. And amazing costumes!
And mind-blowin' dance moves.
This is gonna be soo amazing!
Sweetie Belle, I think you should be a singer.
What? No way I'm singing in front of a crowd. Twilight said to do something we like to do, and I'd like to be like my big sister, and she's a designer.
Fine then. You can do the costumes and the scenery.
And Scootaloo, you're great in maneuvers on your scooter. So you should do the choreography. Y'know, all those dance moves.
Nah. I'd rather sing a wicked rock ballad. Why don't you come up with the dance routine, Apple Bloom?
Hm... I'm not much of a dancer... but I do like Kung-fu. That's kinda like dancin'. Hi-ya! Hah! Hah! Yah!
Then it's settled! Let's get started.
One... two... three... Oh! Oh!
Ow, Apple Bloom! What are you doing?
Oh, I feel like I have four left feet. I can't even spin right.
Don't be silly. You just gotta keep your head forward until the very last minute, like this. See? Easy-peasy. You just gotta practice a bunch, that's all.
Wow! That does look easy. Thanks. Okay. Let's try this again. Oh! Ouch! Ow. I'm okay!
Keep practicing!
Will do.
We fight the fight, walk the walk. Talk the talk, eat the... uh... food like a celery stalk? Ugh! I'll never come up with anything! Never, never, never!
Come back! Come back! Uh. Dumb fabric. Hey, Scoot! How's the song going?
Pbbbt.
Pbbbt? Oh my! Sounds serious.
I'm just no good at lyrics. Coming up with words is, like... [pause] really hard.
Oh, it can't be that bad. "With our cutie marks we'll rock Equestria. We use our stomachs to... digestia"? Umm... Well... These are... um... good, but... How about after "we fight the fight"... There is nothing that we fear We'll have to figure out what we'll do next 'Til our cutie marks are here
Wow! That's so awesome! Did you just come up with that now?
Yeah... kind of.
Thanks, I'm totally using that.
Oh no!
Ouch!
How's the spin coming along?
I think I gotta just stick to punches and kicks. You know, ponies only have four legs.
[moan] I'll never be a designer like my sister Rarity.
Hey, it's no big deal. Why don't you use the dress form? It'll help you with your patterns and help you put all the pieces in the right places.
Oh, is that what that's for?
Uh... maybe you should also clean your paintbrush between each color.
Oh, I was wondering why all the colors looked like mud.
You're not using power tools, are you?
The talent show is just around the corner. I wonder how the fillies are doin'.
Oh! Sorry, Scootaloo.
That's okay. Ugh!
Oops! Sorry, Scootaloo. Ouch!
Oh, my bad, Sweetie Belle. Let's sing the chorus again!
Well, gosh. Sure wasn't expectin' that.
I think that sounded pretty good.
Me too. You think we're ready?
Ready as we'll ever be. Hey! Did you see us practicing?
Uh... Yeah.
Well? How'd we do? How'd we do?
Uh...
Speechless! See, girls? I told you that's what we're gonna do. We're gonna leave them speechless.
Yay!
"Speechless" is right.
...And on the count of three, this rabbit will disappear, and something tasty will reappear in its place. A one, a two, and a three! Hey! Where are they? Snails, where are the... carrots. SNAILS!
Uh, how about a round of applause for the S&S magic act? Now for our next act, we have Sunny Daze and Peachy Pie reciting their favorite poem... on roller skates!
Break a leg!
Sweetie Belle! What a thing to say!
No, no, no. You see, in the theater it's considered bad luck to say "good luck". So you say "break a leg" instead.
My little ponies! How are you doing?
Nervous...
Don't worry. You're gonna be amazing. Remember, just stick to what you know best. I can't wait to hear you sing, Sweetie Belle.
Why does everypony always think I'm gonna sing?
Actually, Twilight Sparkle, I'm the main singer tonight.
Oh?
And I'm the main dancer. Hi-ya!
Oh?
And I'm in charge of...
Costumes?
And sets and props. How'd you know?
Really, girls? Are you sure...?
Cutie Mark Crusaders, you're on next. Break a leg.
Break a le—
Ugh!
Uh... good luck!
Look, here, are three little ponies, Ready to sing for this crowd, Listen up, 'cause here's our story I'm gonna sing it
Very loud!
When you're a younger pony And your flank is very bare Feels like the sun will never come When your cutie mark's not there
So the three of us will fight the fight There is nothing that we fear We'll have to figure out what we'll do next
'Til our cutie marks are here!
We are the Cutie Mark Crusaders On a quest to find out who we are And we will never stop the journey Not until we have our cutie marks
They all say that you'll get your mark When the time is really right And you know just what you're supposed to do And your talent comes to light
But it's not as easy as it sounds And that waiting's hard to do So we test our talents everywhere
Until our face is blue
We are the Cutie Mark Crusaders On a quest to find out who we are And we will never stop the journey Not until we have our cutie marks
We are the Cutie Mark Crusaders On a quest to find out who we are And we will never stop the journey Not until we have our cutie marks!
Wow. That did not go as well as I expected.
I can't believe they're laughin' at us.
Was it that bad?
Back on stage, girls. It's time for the awards.
Back on stage? No.
They'll just laugh some more.
Yeah, what's the point?
Now girls, let's be good sports. You made a great effort. You should be proud. Now come on!
Let's hear it for all our talented fillies and colts.
Our first award goes to... Snips and Snails for best magic act.
Hey! Mine's at least shinier.
Well, mine's bigger.
Oh yeah, well... Well, mine is, um... heavier?
The next award goes to... Sunny Daze and Peachy Pie for best dramatic performance.
And finally, the last award of the night goes to... the Cutie Mark Crusaders!
What?
For best comedy act.
Can you believe it? We won!
I knew our act was awesome.
You know what would be the best? If we won and we got our cutie marks.
Congratulations, ponies! Job well done.
[sadly] Thanks, Twilight.
Hey, you don't sound too excited.
[sigh] We worked really hard and won a prize, but we still don't have our cutie marks.
Which is the prize we really wanted.
Oh, girls...
But we think we know why.
Yes. We know why.
Oh? Tell me. I'd love to make a special report to the Princess.
Well, maybe we were trying too hard.
Yes? And?
And instead of forcing ourselves to do something that's not meant for us...
Yes? Yes?
We each should be embracing our true talent!
And that is...?
Comedy!
Apple Bloom! You did it!
Did you see our award? Weren't we funny?
One day... [giggle] One day...
Perfect!
Coming! Welcome to Carousel Boutique, where every garment is chic, unique, and magnifique. [gasp] Sapphire Shores! The pony of pop!
Good afternoon, Miss Rarity!
You yah... Y-y-you know my name?
Well, of course I do, darling. I make it a point to know all of the up-and-coming designers and Clothes Horse magazine simply raved about you.
Oh my stars. If I'm dreaming, do not wake me up. How may I help you, Miss Shores?
Oh please, call me Sapphire.
[giggle] How may I help you, Sapphire?
Well, as I'm sure you know, I'll be touring all of Equestria with my latest concert, Sapphire Shores' Ziegfilly Follies, so I need to look seeensational! Ow!
I have just what you need. Sapphire Shores, prepare yourself for the pièce de résistance de la haute couture. I used every last diamond I found on this one garment.
[gasp] And it is spectacular! I'll take it.
Really?
Oh yes, and five more, each done up in a different jewel.
Beg pardon?
Costume changes.
[chuckle] Yes, I do have that effect on ponies.
Oh my gosh! Sapphire Shores! The pony of pop! She is awesome! I mean, she's gorgeous and talented and — heh... and not even half the pony you are. I mean, you're ten times more gorgeous and talented and—
Spike, a lady is never jealous.
Eh, of course not. But were you totally flipping out or what?!
Ladies do not "flip out", Spike. However, I was quite in awe. Oh, I need to find more jewels than ever before to decorate her costumes. Oh, aha!
Did you find some?
Yes, Spike! Right there!
Ooooo! You look so delicious...
Spike! I promised I'd give you gems to snack on, but we need to collect more first or I'll never be able to make these outfits for Sapphire.
Hm... I will miss you, my sweets.
Come along, Spike. We have many jewels to find.
At your service, milady.
Spike!
You've been very patient today, Spike. And for that you get the finest reward. This is from me to you.
Is something wrong, Spike?
No. It's perfect.
Ooo, bring the cart, Spike. There are more over here.
For me. From Rarity.
Yesss, gemsss. Gemsss!
Where?
Preciousss gemsss! He is the gem hunter. With him we can have all those gems... and more! Let's get the dragon.
Spike! Where are you?
Wait! Who is that?
You know, it's terrible to keep a lady waiting.
Coming!
Jackpot!
Oh, it's not the dragon we want. It's the pony!
The pony...
Well, Spike, I think that's all we can do for today. And these will certainly get me well on my way with Sapphire's outfits. Why don't we start headi... Oh! What's this? Another jewel. Oh.. Oh, strange. It's in the trees. Oooo... Ewww! Uh... uh... Good day, gentle... uh, fellow. Uh, I am Rarity and this is my friend Spike.
Ehe...
And you are...
A Diamond Dog.
Oh really? Oh well, that explains your fine taste in jewelry. I mean I-I-I know that diamonds are a girl's best friend and now I know that they're a dog's best friend too, ha ha ha. So, um, [cough] you're out hunting for gems as well?
Yes. We hunt.
Uh... we?
We hunt for gems. But you are a better hunter. So now we hunt... for you!
Yaaaaah!
[grunt] Run, Rarity! Run! Aaaah! Uh!
Ooooooh!
Yaaaaah!
Spike! Come on! Hurry!
Gotcha!
Waah! Spike!
Got him, Rarity! I got him!
Haha! Nope!
Sorry, scaly one.
Wait! Rarity?
Unhand me this instant, you ruffians. Stop! Put me down, you thugs! You brutes!
[gasp] Rarity!
Spike! Ah, dirt! Aaaaah, Spiiiike!
Which, what, where?
Save me...!
Nooooooooooo!
Spike, can you breathe now?
Yes... [pant] I think so.
Good. Now tell us what you know.
Yeah. 'Cause all you said earlier was...
[pant] Aaaah! Rarity... woods... jewels... dogs... hole... taken... Save her!
Not a whole lot to go on there, sport.
Sorry. Rarity and I were in the woods looking for jewels when these creepy guys showed up.
Creepy guys?
They called themselves the Diamond Dogs. They grabbed Rarity and disappeared down a hole in the ground.
Well, this sounds mighty easy. Just take us to that there hole and we'll save Rarity.
Holy moly, that's a lotta holeys.
Come on, girls! Let's get started.
Hello?
[gasp] Puh!
Yuck! Ugh!
Puh!
Quick! We gotta get down one before they're all filled up.
Oh! Oh my. Oh, oh!
We can't muscle through it!
Whew. Heavens to Betsy. Now I'm used to pickin' myself up and dustin' myself off, but Rarity won't even touch mud 'less it's imported.
Oh, Rarity...
Oh, woe is me! Whatever shall I do? Ah! Dirt, dirt! Get away, dirt! Oh! Make it stop, make it stop! Ah! Filthy, disgusting dirt. It stings, it burns. Help! Oh, somepony save me, save me!
We gotta save her.
But they blocked up all the holes.
Don't mean we can't dig 'em out. Come on!
Ow!
Oof!
[panting] Whoa! Oof!
Get 'em!
Whoooaaa!
Come on!
All those scary monsters popping up everywhere. Oh, poor Rarity must be terrified.
[worryingly] Ooh.
Give me the baubles!
Ah!
Give me the beads!
Aah!
Where are the trinkets?!
Aaaah!
Where is the treasure?!
Poor Rarity. What are we gonna do?
I got it! I'll save you, my sweet.
Huh?
Spike, it is very noble of you...
Shhh!
[quieter] ...to sacrifice the gem Rarity gave you.
Oh, Lady Rarity. My damsel in distress.
I shall save you. Show yourselves, you dogs! You curs! Ah. There you are, you mangy mutts.
Now, where is Lady Rarity?
[gasp] Spike! I knew you would save me!
Nothing could stop me, milady.
Mmmmmm...
Hoho there, lover boy.
Whoa! Whoa whoa whoawhoawhoa... I got a bite! I got a bite!
Hold on there, little fella.
Applejack!
Twilight!
Oh my goodness, oh my goodness...
Wait for me!
Oh!
Whee!
Whee! Ha, ha, ha!
Oh, oh!
Ha ha, it worked! We're in! Now we can finally save Rarity!
Um... Which way do we go?
Nooooooooooo!
All these tunnels... How are we ever gonna find Rarity?
Guess we're just gonna have to start going down them one by one.
That could take forever! There's gotta be way to narrow it down.
I know! I bet they've taken Rarity down the tunnel with the most gems.
But Spike, Rarity is the only one who knows how to find gems.
No, Twilight. You can! You can copy Rarity's gem-finding spell.
Oh my gosh! You're right! Rarity showed me how she did it a while back. If I can just remember...
That's it. You did it, Twilight! Come on! We're coming, Rarity. We'll save you. Just hold on.
Oh please, Diamond Dogs. Please let me go.
No!
You're our precious little pony.
Forever! Muhahahaha!
But whatever do you want from me?
Gemsss!
Yes! The gems. The jewels.
Find them! Find them all!
Oh! Is that all?
There. A lovely pocket of jewels are right there. Now, if you'd be so kind as to show me the exit?
Good! [laugh] Now, dig them up, pony.
What? But you said you wanted me to find the gems.
Yes! Find and then dig.
Dig?
Yes. Dig.
What are you doing? We said dig!
Oh, for goodness— Fine! Just stop. Stop! Dig, dogs! Dig! And fast.
She won't dig, she pulls.
I beg your pardon, but what, pray tell, are you doing?
Others will dig. You will haul the wagon.
Prrrecious pony-pedi will be preserved.
Well, somebody certainly needs proper nail care. When was the last time you two had a manicure? You're scratching up my coat with those jagged things!
Please be quiet!
Good heavens, what is that smell?
Smeeeeeell?
Ah, mystery solved. It's your breath.
Enough! Search, pony!
Well, since you insist... But I must say the working conditions in here are simply dreadful. Musty and damp, it's going to wreak havoc on my mane. And this air is stifling, suffocating. And when I try to take a deep breath, the stench of all you dogs makes me nauseated.
You look and smell like you haven't bathed in weeks. Have you never heard of soap? You could all do with a good round of soap and water. Oh water, oh water, I'm terribly thirsty. Could I please have some water?
Good gracious, I can't take this anymore. Be quiet, pony!
And that's another thing. I would appreciate if you stopped calling me "pony". I am a lady and I wish to be addressed as such. So you may call me "Miss" or "Rarity" or "Miss Rarity".
Enough! Your whining! It-it-it hurts!
Whining? I am not whining. I am complaining. Do you want to hear whining? Thiiis iiis whiiining! Oooh, this harness is too tiiight! It's going to chafe. Can't you loosen it? Oooh, it hurts and it's sooo ruuusty! Why didn't you clean it first? It's gonna leave a staaain! And the wagon's getting heeeavy, why do I have to pull it?!
Aaah! Make it stop!
Stop whining!
But I thought you wanted whiiining!
Geh! We'll do anything, pony!
[dreamily] Anything?
[sigh] This water is hardly sparkling. But I suppose it will have to do.
[panting] Wait! Why are we doing this?
Yes, yes, I know. This is ridiculous! Letting a pony order us around. What are we? Mice or dogs?
Mi... dogs?
Dogs do not pull. Ponies pull. Let her make the awful noises.
What are you doing? Hey, you spilled my drink. Oh! [whining] Not sooo tiiight!
Ha! Make the noises all you want. But move while you make them. Hyah, mule!
Did you just call me a... mule?
Ehh...
What are these noises?
He called me ugly!
No! Mule! I said mule!
An old ugly mule! And it's true! Just look at me. I used to be beautiful, but, but nooow...
No, no! You're still beautiful, po... uh, Miss Rarity.
You're just saying that!
No, you're still pretty and... and...
Oh, uh, uh, nice. Yeah.
Oh, I've had just about enough of this!
We're getting close. I can feel it.
It's coming from down here. Come on!
She must be in there. Let's go!
More workhorses.
Hoh, doggies. If you can take this bull by the horns, you better be ready for a ride. Come on, ponies! Kick 'em up, kick 'em out. Buck 'em up, buck 'em down.
Yeehaw! Get along, little doggies!
I'm coming for you, milady. Hi-ho, Twilight! Away!
And just what do you think you're doing?
Please, Twilight. Just give me this.
Lady Rarity, I'm here to save you!
Excuse me?
So picky.
And critical.
She won't stop talking.
And crying.
We, uh, give her back. Yes.
Rarity! You're safe!
Why, yes. Hello, girls. You arrived just in time to assist me.
Assist you with what?
With those.
You're letting her leave with all these... jewels?
Yes. Take them. And her with them.
Please!
I can't believe you found all these gems!
Heh. I can't believe you tricked all those dogs.
Just because I'm a lady doesn't mean I cannot handle myself in a sticky situation. I had them wrapped around my hoof the entire time.
I can't wait to write to Princess Celestia to tell her what you taught me today.
Me? What did I teach you?
Just because somepony is ladylike doesn't make her weak. In fact, by using her wits, a seemingly defenseless pony can be the one who outsmarts and outshines them all.
Hm... "Outshines" is right. Now you have enough gems to cover Sapphire Shores' costumes.
Not if you eat them all, Spike.
So sorry, Fluttershy. I hate being late for our weekly get-together. The usual!
But you will not believe what happened to me.
Is everything all right?
Oh, it's much more than all right. I was on my way here, wearing my latest hat creation, when who should stop me on the street but Photo Finish!?
Photo Finish?
She is the most famous fashion photographer in all of Equestria. Anywho, she saw my hat and said it was absolutely marvelous!
What a lovely compliment.
She was so impressed that she wants to take some pictures of my shop featuring some of my clothes!
[squee] That's wonderful.
[vibrating] Do you know what this could mean for my fashion career?
Oh, Rarity, I'm so happy for you.
But I'm going to need somepony fabulous to model for me. Somepony with beauty. Somepony with grace. Somepony... like you?
Oh, goodness. I don't know.
Oh, this is such a huge opportunity. And it would mean so much to me.
I'm flattered, really.
Nopony is going to have your elegance and poise.
But...
Nopony!
There has to be somepony more quali-
Please!
Somepony more into fashion.
Please!
Somepony more comfortable in the spotlight.
Please, please, pleeease!
Oh, if it's that important to you, of course I'll do it.
Oh, thankyouthankyouthankyouthankyou! You are the best friend a pony could ever have!
[sigh] What a wonderful way to spend an afternoon.
Isn't it? Though I was so afraid you wouldn't agree to model for me that I felt completely frazzled. I think I feel a pimple coming on. Oh! Only one solution! The usual!
Hm... She's going to want to see attitude and pizzazz.
A-a-attitude and, um... pizzazz.
More light! It has to catch the sequins just so or the whole outfit is just a disaster. Oh, and the headdress needs more feathers. Pinkie Pie! More feathers! And sequins! More sequins!
And more ribbon! Oh no! Less ribbon. No! More ribbon.
Oh, this hem is completely off. Pincushion! Thank you all for helping me. I'm sorry to be so short with you, but I'm... I'm just so nervous.
Oh, doesn't that hurt?
Thick scales. Can't feel a thing. And even if I could, there is no pain that would keep me from assisting the most beautiful creature in the world. I'm gonna tell you two a secret. But you have to promise not to tell anyone.
I promise.
Cross my heart and hope to fly, stick a cupcake in my eye.
I have a crush on Rarity!
[gasp] We won't say a word!
Give me a break. Everypony already knows how you-
Twilight! You promised Spike you wouldn't say anything. He trusts you. And losing a friend's trust is the fastest way to lose a friend forever!
But-
Forever!
My lips are sealed. Though I'm pretty sure Rarity is gonna pick up on your feelings.
I, Photo Finish... have arrived.
Let me just say, what an honor!
We begin... now!
Attitude and pizzazz!
Yes! Show Photo Finish something. No! Yeees. No! Yeees. No! Yeees. Enough!
She hardly took any pictures.
I'm so sorry. I tried my best.
Well, the headdress is too big for you and cape had too much sparkle. I can't believe I ever thought I could impress her.
It seems that I, Photo Finish, have found the next fashion star here in Ponyville.
Really?
Yes. Really. And I, Photo Finish, am going to help her to shine all over Eqvestria. Tomorrow, a photo shoot in ze park. [pause] I go!
Did you hear that? I am going to "shine all over Equestria".
Oh, Rarity. I was so worried I'd ruined everything.
No, no, no, yes! That is definitely the one. Photo Finish is going to love it. Everypony is going to love it!
Oh, I am so excited for you. Just don't forget us little ponies when you become the most famous designer in all of Equestria.
Never.
Put me down here. Oh, nonononononono. The model should be in something simple! Something inspired by... the nature!
That's just what I was thinking. Um... give me a moment and I'll, uh, put a little something together.
Yes... that will not be necessary.
But... but... how are you going to help me "shine across Equestria" if I don't design something new for these pictures?
I am not going to help you shine across Equestria. I am going to help her shine. She is my star. You! Go!
I can't, Rarity.
Oh, but you must, Fluttershy. Photo Finish wants to make you a star. This is the opportunity of a lifetime. I know we were both hoping it would be my lifetime, but nonetheless you can't throw away this chance. You must do this for me. You must. You must! You must!
Floottershy! It is time to make... the magics! Oh, wunderbar! You are like a delicate flower. So much more alluring without all those sparkles und feathers.
How'd it go? How'd it go?
It didn't. Photo Finish wanted to work with Fluttershy, not me.
Oh, Rarity. I'm so sorry. Is there anything we can do?
I just vant to be alone right now.
You heard her. She vants to be... alone. What? I didn't think she meant alone alone.
Too much blush. Not enough. Too much. Not enough. Perfect.
Oh, yes! Even her schneezes are graceful. Now go! How do you feel? Excited? Overjoyed? Thrilled beyond your wildest dreams?
N... nervous.
Nervous? Dun be ridiculous. You're only facing a large crowd of ponies who will be watching your every move and silently judging you.
Your cue! Now go!
No seriously...
You can't let Rarity down. You must do this. You must. You must. You must.
So graceful.
So lovely.
So perfect for my new advertisement.
It's Fluttershy!
Wow. Look how popular you are. I'm so excited for you. You must be having the best time ever.
Oh, yes. Best time ever...
Floottershy! I have been looking for you everywhere. We have the thing at the place.
I'll see you at the spa? Our usual time?
Of course! I can't wait to hear all about the... "thing at the place".
I'm the one who should be mobbed by strangers wherever I go.
Welcome to Carousel Boutique!
Is she still here? We heard Fluttershy was here.
Sorry. You just missed her. But you're still in luck. I'm having a huge sale on some of my best designs.
And you are...?
Rarity, of course.
Never heard of you.
Obviously I, Photo Finish, am thwilled to have found her.
Photo Finish?
She's a natural in front of the camera.
Um... Photo Finish?
I only need to point and shoot, and I capture... the magics!
Photo Finish, I'm so sorry to interrupt. It's just that I'm running late.
[gasp] How could I have forgotten?! Your appearance at the ballet opening! Everypony who is anypony will be there.
Oh, actually I'm supposed to be meeting my friend...
We go!
My hooves are getting positively pruney, I've been waiting here so long. Obviously Fluttershy's just too busy with her new career to spend time with her best friend.
I'm sure she just got tied up.
Of course she did. She's a big bright shining star! I wish that star would burn out.
Rarity! Fluttershy is your friend.
I know, I know. And I should be happy for her, but instead I'm just... jealous! Oh, please promise you won't tell her I feel this way. Please, please, pleasepleaseplease!
You have my word. Losing a friend's trust is the fastest way to lose a friend.
Forever!
Wow! You look great!
Fluttershy may be the one who's famous, but that doesn't mean I have to stop looking fabulous.
Rarity! I'm so sorry I'm... Oh no. She's already gone, isn't she?
Sorry.
Feel better?
[sighs] No. Can I tell you something?
Of course.
You promise not to tell Rarity?
I swear.
Pinkie Pie Swear?
Cross my heart and hope to fly, stick a cupcake in my [poke] Ooowwwww!
I don't like being a model. No, I hate being a model. All this attention is awful, just awful. And I'm only doing it because Rarity told me I must. I must! I must! [sigh] I must...
Oh, really? Well... If you wanna know the truth, Rarity...
Oh, what were you about to say?
[quietly] Forever!
Nothing!
I was just thinking. If you really don't like being a model, you could always quit.
Oh, no. I could never do such a thing. Rarity would be devastated.
[chomp] Mmm... Juicy!
Uhhhhhh!
Oh, if only all these ponies didn't like me so much. Photo Finish wouldn't want me to model anymore. She'd find somepony else with... the magic!
I guess you're right. [pause] You're right. You're right, you're right, you're right!
It's Fluttershy!
Don't you see? On her own, Fluttershy could never do something unattractive. But if I used my magic to help her do something unattractive at her next fashion show, no one will ever want her to model again. And if Fluttershy no longer has to be a model, Rarity will no longer have to be jealous of her. And I'll no longer have to keep their secrets! It's the perfect plan! You can't tell anyone about it. Promise me you won't tell anyone?
So you do promise or you don't?
Obviously.
You really think it'll work?
They love you for being you. So all I have to do is make you not be you. Just leave it to me.
Guess it's time to see what all the fuss is about.
Oof!
[gasp] Ooh... Aah!
Oh no.
Get her off the stage!
She's an embarrassment to all things fashion!
I, Photo Finish, have made a terrible mistake!
Bravo! I say bravo!
Bravo? Who could possibly say bravo to that horrid display?
Such attitude! Such pizzazz! She's invented an entirely new kind of modeling! Bravo!
Who is saying these things?
It's her. The unicorn in the gorgeous cape and headdress.
Now that is a pony who clearly knows a thing or two about fashion. Well, if that fabulous pony likes it, then I do too! Bravo!
This is awful. Just awful! Somehow I've become more popular than ever. Oh, I'm so frustrated I could just kick something!
If only Rarity didn't want me to be a model so badly.
Ugh! But Rarity...!
Fluttershy! Are you all right?
I'm great! I'm a super famous fashion model. Why wouldn't I be great?
Because you ha...!
Out there on the runway, everyone was turning on you and... Oh... Oh, Fluttershy. It's so awful. I wanted them to.
You did?!
Of course she did! Because...!
I'm jealous! I wanted all the attention. And instead it was going to you. I even started hoping that you would do something silly so your modeling career would be over. But then, when it started happening, all I could think was how could I want you to fail at something you love so much?
But... Fluttershy doesn't... Ugh!
Love? Oh, Rarity. I hate being a model.
You do?
More than anything.
Then why did you keep doing it?
I was afraid if I quit, you'd be mad at me for not wanting to... "shine all over Equestria".
And I thought if I told you how jealous I was of your success, you'd think I was a terrible friend.
Never!
All this time!
If we'd just told each other the truth.
I promise never to keep my feelings in secret again.
Me too.
You were brilliant. Brilliant! I've already got six photo shoots lined up for tomorrow alone.
I'm sorry, Photo Finish, but I don't think I'll be able to make any of them.
Whaaat?
We go!
Vat has just happened?
Spike has a crush on Rarity!
[sigh] And you were doing so well.
Now this is a wonderful way to spend an afternoon.
Isn't it, though?
Dear Princess Celestia,
Being a good friend means being able to keep a secret. But you should never be afraid to share your true feelings with a good friend. Did you get all that, Spike?
No. I did not. I still can't believe you told someone about my secret feelings for Rarity.
You're right. That was wrong of me, and I'm very sorry.
Apology accepted.
Now will you take down my letter to Princess Celestia?
I would love to. But... I'm a little busy at the moment.
And that's when the yellow birdie thought to himself, "Hmm. My favorite little tree isn't such a little tree anymore." So she sang her song, big and strong, and they all lived in that great, big tree happily ever after. The... end.
Applejack! Were you reading a bedtime story to... an apple tree?
Heh... uh... Well, ya know, bein' replanted in a whole new place is very upsettin' for a tree... and Bloomberg here is one of my favorites.
No fair, Applejack! You've got a luxurious, private sleeper car for a tree, while I am crowded and cramped in the same car with all the other ponies. How am I supposed to get my beauty sleep?!
But Bloomberg's the whole reason we're makin' this trip. He needs his rest so we can give him as a gift to my relatives in Appleloosa.
Hmph! You talk about it as if it's your baby or something.
Who you callin' a baby?! Bloomberg's no baby! Don't wet widdle Rarity make you all saddy-waddy. Bloomberg's a big and strong apple tree. Yes, he is. A-coochie-coochie-coo-coo-coo!
It's widdle Rarity who's all "saddy-waddy"! Urgh!
Oh man, we're going fast! This is so exciting, I can't even wait!
Oh my goodness...
[sigh] For crying out loud in the morning!
[groan] Do you guys mind? I was up early fire-roasting those snacks you're all eating, and I'm pooped!
Uh, speaking of, some of these popcorn kernels didn't get popped.
Okay, fine...
Ghk...
Good night!
Uhh... maybe it's time we all got a little shut-eye. We've got a big day ahead of us tomorrow.
Rainbow Dash, Fluttershy, Awwww!
[whispering] Psst! Pinkie Pie, you asleep yet?
[whispering] No, are you asleep yet?
[whispering] If I was sleeping, how could I have asked you if you were asleep?
[whispering] When we get to Appleloosa, you think we'll have to carry that heavy tree all the way from the train to the orchard?
[whispering] What tree? You mean Bloomberg?
[whispering and sarcastically] ...No, Fluttershy.
[whispering] Fluttershy's not a tree, silly!
What's going on?
Rainbow Dash thinks Fluttershy's a tree!
[whispering] I do not think she's a tree! I was just–
Did you say she was a tree?
[whispering] No. Well.. Yes. But not exactly–
Ya know she's not a tree, right?
She's not a tree, Dashie!
I'd like to be a tree...
Oh, for Pete's sake!
Well that was kind of huffy.
Huffy the magic dragon!
Would you all be quiet... now?!
A buffalo stampede!
I just love their accessories!
They're getting awfully close to the train.
I want to speak to the manager!
Oooh, looky! Now they're doing tricks! Ooh! Ooh! Ooh! Now do a backflip!... Or... Just jump?
Hmm.. Something tells me this isn't a circus act. Hey there!
Where ya headed in such a hurry? Wow, you're pretty quick for someone so... bulky. No offense.
Huh..?
[gasp] They've got Bloomberg!
Heeeelp!
And Spike!
Ugggh..
[distant] Heeeelp!
Dragon-napping Spike. I'll show her! Ow...
Hey there! Welcome ta A-A-ppleloosa!
Braeburn, listen–
Cousin Applejack, mind yer manners, you have yet ta introduce me to your compadres! Shame on you!
Braeburn, listen, somethin' terrible's happened–
Terrible is right, your train is a full seven minutes late! That's seven minutes less for you to delight in the pleasures and wonders of... A-A-A-ppleloosa! Boggles the mind, we settler ponies built all this in just the past year, don't it?! And as you can see, we have all of the finest comforts. Like horse-drawn carriages!
"Black Stone": Okay, you pull now.
Aww, we just switched.
And those there are horse-drawn horse-drawn carriages.
...Listen, Braeburn, I– Oof!
And here's our local waterin' hole, the Salt Block.
"Morton Saltworthy": That's enough salt for you!
Ol' Can't I at least... get a glass of water?
Over there's the office of Sheriff Silverstar. And here's where we have our wild west dances! And here's where we have our mild west dances!
But, Braeburn, we–
And here's the most wonderful sight in all of... A-A-A-ppleloosa! Our apple orchard.
Braeburn!
First harvest should be any day now.
Braebu–
Good thing too!
Brae–
'Cause we need that grub to live on.
Braeburn!
Uh, yes, cuz?
You have a very nice town an' all, but we have a hu-uge problem! Some of our friends are missin'!
A stampede of buffalo.
They took Spike!
Rainbow Dash went after them!
And we can't find Pinkie Pie.
And we had an apple tree with us for your orchard, but they took that too!
Did you say... buffalo? [sigh] Them buffalo, they want us settler ponies to take every single tree you see here off this land. They sure as hay don't want any new ones added in.
But why?
Beats me. We put a lot of hard work into this land, so we can feed our town, our families, our foals! And now they're sayin' all these trees have to go? T'ain't fair...
Ooh, I can't wait to get my hooves on that little buffalo... Hnnh... Ow! Nobody tricks Rainbow Dash and gets away with it.
Boo!
Yah! ...Pinkie Pie!
Ah, ya caught me! Looks like I tricked you and didn't get away with it either! You're good.
Shhshh! What do you think you're doing?! You gotta get out of here!
I do?
You're gonna blow my cover.
I am?
I'm trying to save Spike!
Oh my gosh! So am I!
And the more of us there are out here, the more chances of us getting... caught. Run, Pinkie, I'll hold 'em off. Save yourself!
Stop! Dash, Pinkie, 'sup? Hey, no worries, I know those guys. They're cool.
If you say so, Spike. Catch ya later, bro.
Seems they took me by mistake. And they feel awful about it too, poor guys. Fortunately, they totally respect dragons, so they treat me like an honored guest.
[sniff] Ugh...
Still don't like ponies much, though... But you're with me, so it's cool.
Huh. Well, I still don't trust them. I say we turn tail and bail while we still–
Mmm! [munching] Before we finish eating? Are you loco in the coco?! Can I please have more of that mushy stuff, whatever it was?
Certainly. And, Mr. Spike, you like gemstones, yes?
Turquoise. Mmm! [munching] Heh hah! This here is Little Strongheart, and these are my friends Pinkie Pie and Rainbow Dash.
You!
You!
That's it! We are outta here!
Wait! Please accept my apologies for what happened on the train. We didn't mean for anyone to be hurt.
Yeah, right.
We only wanted the tree. The settler ponies have overtaken the land and have planted an orchard all over it! Because of their thoughtlessness, we can no longer run over our traditional stampeding grounds.
Huh?
I think it's time they met Chief Thunderhooves.
Hmmh. We have a long and winding stampeding trail that we have run upon for many generations. [breath] My father stampeded upon these grounds, and his father before him, and his father before him, and his father before him, and his father before him, and–
I think they get the idea, Chief.
They planted apple trees all over it without asking our permission.
Well that's not very nice. Right, Rainbow Dash?
Hmph...
The ponies refused to move their trees, so we are stuck here, and it is not fair!
See, Rainbow Dash? They had a good reason to–
Huh... Ah!
I'll say they had a good reason! C'mon. We have some apple-pickin' Appleloosans to talk to!
Ow! [groaning] Gently, please!
Sorry, Rarity, but our friends are out there and we have ta' be ready for a long hike into buffalo territory if we're gonna save 'em! Let's go!
Hi, guys!
Pinkie! We're so glad you're safe.
How did you escape from the buffalo?
We didn't!
We promised the buffalo a chance to talk.
Oh, yeah? 'Bout what?
We brought our new pal Little Strongheart here to explain to the Appleloosans why they should move the apple trees off buffalo land.
That information would be quite help–
That's weird. 'Cause my cousin Braeburn here wants to explain to the buffalo why they should let the apple trees stay.
That would be a useful thing to–
The land is theirs! You planted the trees not knowing that. Honest mistake. Now, you just gotta move 'em, that's all.
Well... heh...
They busted their rumps here! An' now they're supposed ta bust their rumps again, just 'cause some buffalo won't stampede someplace else?
Plant the trees somewhere else!
Where?! It's the only flatland around these parts!
The buffalo had it first!
The settler ponies need it to live!
Come on, Applejack!
[over Rainbow Dash] You're bein' unreasonable!
[over Applejack] I put my hoof down!
Look! Both the settlers and the buffalo have good reasons to use this land. There must be something we can do.
Hey! I've got an idea!
We may be divided But of you all, I beg To remember we're all hoofed At the end of each leg
No matter what the issue Come from wherever you please All this fighting gets you nothing But hoof-and-mouth disease
Arguing's not the way Hey, come out and play! It's a shiny, new day So, what do you say?
You gotta share You gotta care It's the right thing to do You gotta share You gotta care And there'll always be a way through
Both our diets, I should mention Are completely vegetarian We all eat hay and oats Why be at each other's throat?
You gotta share You gotta care It's the right thing to do And there'll always be a way Throoooough!
[applauds] All right, Pinkie Pie! That was fantastic! What a great song! Yeah, right on!
It appears that Sheriff Silverstar and I have come to... an agreement.
We have.
That was the worst performance we've ever seen.
Teh... Abso-tively!
The time for action... Hmh... is upon us! Our stampede will start at high noon tomorrow. And if the orchard is still there, we'll flatten it... and the whole town!
But, Chief!
An' we Appleloosans say you'd better bring yer best, 'cause we'll be ready and waitin'.
But, Sheriff...
Oh... That wasn't the message of my song at all...
I want my kin ta' have what they need to live... but a storm's a-brewin' here. And I don't like the look of it.
We've just got to talk some sense into them before somepony gets hurt. Listen, maybe if you would just reconsider, we–
About the trees. Now if you could–
If we could just sit down and talk we could–
Grrrrr!
[gasp] Why won't anybody be rational and reasonable?!
Sheriff, if we could only–
Isn't there someway to stop this?
Unless the settlers remove those trees, I do not think so.
I know you don't want to do this.
But they have taken our land. What would you have me do, Rainbow Dash?
I don't know... but it's never too late to think of something.
At noon, it will be too late.
Come on, think! Think, think, think, think, think, think, think!
[gasp] He's not gonna do it!
–what do you say? You gotta share You gotta care It's the right thing to do
Grrr... You gotta share
Chaaarge! You gotta care
Wah-ahh! Whoa-oo-oo-oo-ooa!
Ready... aim... fire!
Ah! Aah!
[distorted] Nooo!
Yum! Hey, I've got a much better idea!
We... will allow the apple orchard to stay in exchange for a share of its fruit, heh... Those... delicious apple pies!
I'd rather eat turquoise any day of the week. [chomp] Auhh...!
Bloomberg, this is yer special day. Mama's so proud of you!
Dear Princess Celestia,
Friendship is a wondrous and powerful thing. Even the worst of enemies can become friends. You need understanding and compromise. You've got to share. You've got to care.
Hey! That's what I said!
There you go, Mr. Mousey. Now you stay off that leg and do everything I told you. And it will be just like new in no time at all.
Oh, you're welcome. Happy to be able to help.
You... found a watch? You... wanna be a watch? You're running! Running out of time? No. You're... late?
[gasp] I'm late for a very important date! The big brunch for Princess Celestia at Sugarcube Corner. Oh, the princess is here in Ponyville for a party, and we all promised we'd be there. But I'm not there! Oh, do I look all right? Do I need to bring anything? Maybe I shouldn't go.
Aah! It's starting! I'm missing it!
Oh, thanks, Angel. I mean, if you hadn't reminded me, I might have not remembered, and then I wouldn't be there, and everypony would be wondering where I was and... Oh, right. I'm late.
Oh, okay then. See you later.
So... what do I have to do to get to be one of the Princess's royal guards, anyway? Is the pay good? Hellooo? Anybody home? [babbles] Wah-wah! [babbles] Ooh, you're good. [pause] Too good. I'm bored.
Halt!
Who goes there?
[gulp] No one. Never mind. I'll go home.
It's all right, sirs. She's on the list.
Thanks, Twilight.
I'm so glad you could make it, Fluttershy. It wouldn't be the same without you.
Mr. How's everypony doing? Good? Good.
Mrs. Anything else we can get for you, dearies...? Ooh, I-I mean, esteemed guests.
Everything is fine, Mr. and Mrs. Cake.
Sorry I'm late. I had to finish taking care of a patient first.
Oh, you and your tender loving care of little animals. I just know Princess Celestia is gonna love that about you. I mean, I hope she will... I mean, of course she will!
Wow, Twilight. I thought I was the only one who got nervous at social gatherings.
Oh, it's not that. I just want the princess to approve of my friends.
But she's met us all before.
And read about you in my letters. But this is the first time she's spent any real time with you. I want everypony to make a good impression.
Well, I'm sure you have nothing to worry about. Besides, it's just a casual get-together, right?
Don't touch me! Watch the dress! Careful, you're gonna spill that on me! Oh, oh, that looks delicious. What is it? Oh, does it stain?! Keep it away from me!
Or... perhaps not that casual.
Uh... which is the salad and which is the appetizer again? And which am I supposed to eat first? Oh, never mind. I'm not hungry.
It's okay, Twilight. So our friends' manners aren't perfect. I doubt the princess will even notice.
Hey!
Mr. A thousand pardons, Your Majesty.
Mrs. Empty teacup at 4 o'clock!
Mr. Uh, I see it, honey bun!
Oh, um... thank you.
Mr. Not at all, Your Highness.
[sips] Thank you again.
Mrs. Oh, but of course, Your Majesty.
[sips] [sips] [sips] Gotcha!
Oh...
And what about you, dear? Fluttershy, is it?
Me? Oh yes, Your Highness.
I understand from Twilight Sparkle's letters that you enjoy tending to the needs of woodland creatures.
Yes, I love to take care of animals.
As do I. As Princess, I care deeply about all creatures, great and small.
Nothing means more to me than the well-being of all my subjects.
Ah, Philomena, my pet. You're awake. Do say hello to our gracious hosts.
Oh... my.
She is quite a sight, isn't she?
I... I... I've never seen anything like it.
Really? Well, if I must... I'm sorry, everypony. I'm afraid I have to cut the party short. The mayor has requested an audience with me. Royal duty calls. Thank you for a wonderful time. It's been a joy getting to know you all better.
Phew! Now I can eat someth'n! I'm starved! Oh...
Stay right where you are. All I want is a clear path to the exit. Nobody move and my dress won't get hurt! Stay back! Back, I say!
[sigh] Well, Spike, I don't know for sure how things went with the princess, but at least no big disasters happened.
Oh, you poor little thing. How did you ever get in such bad condition? Don't you worry, Philomena. I'll nurse you back to health. As a favor to the princess, who's obviously just far too busy to care for you properly.
This is far worse than I thought. What you need is some medicine. Stat!
Here you go, Philomena. This will fix you right up.
Doctor Fluttershy expected that.
Always works. [gasp] Uh... Almost always.
There's nothing like homemade soup to cure what ails you. Come on now. You're not gonna get better if you don't cooperate. Mmm... See? It's delicious. Good and good for you. Here comes the choo-choo train. Chugga-chugga, chugga-chugga, whoo-whoo!
Oh dear. Don't worry, Philomena. I know what'll make you feel better. Wait right here. I have just the thing.
Look, Philomena. I brought a fellow feathered friend by to cheer you up. Hummingway here was sick once too, but he let me help him and got better in no time. Didn't you, boy?
Say hello to your new friend Philomena.
Your turn now, Philomena. Go ahead. You can do it. [vocalizes My Little Pony theme] Oh! Um... good try?
I know what'll clear up that tickle in your throat. A humidifier. [deep breath] Refreshing. How's that feeling now for you, Philomena? Better?
Oh... That's okay. I know lots of other ways to take care of you. Don't worry. You're gonna get better. How about...
Aromatherapy?
Warm bath?
Ointment?
Scalpel. Surgical tape. Feathers.
Oh, Philomena. I thought it would be easy to nurse you back to health. I've tried everything I know. And look at you. You're worse than ever.
Hi, Fluttershy! I just wanted to drop by and say thank you so very much for making such a good impression on the princess today... [gasp] What is Celestia's pet doing here?!
I couldn't leave the poor thing there. She needed my help.
Oh no. Nonononononono! This is bad.
How could I just walk away and not do anything?
But... but... she doesn't belong to you!
I had to do something.
Without telling anypony?! Without asking permission?!
But...
I know you had good intentions, but you have got to return the princess's pet!
But...
[sigh] You're right. Okay, let's...
...go.
We were told we could find Twilight Sparkle here.
We regret to inform you, miss, that the royal pet has gone missing.
It's that dry night air?
But it's daytime.
Well... day air's even drier. You guards better be on your way if you're gonna find the princess's missing pet. Philomena, was it? Thank you ever so much for keeping me in the loop. Bye! [pants] Phew... What are you doing?!
Going to return Philomena, remember?
We can't now!
Why not?
You have no idea what the princess is gonna do if she finds you're the one who took her pet, do you?!
Do you?
Well... no. But it can't be anything good. She might banish you from Equestria. Or throw you in a dungeon. Or banish you and then throw you in a dungeon in the place that she banishes you to!
You really think the princess would do that?
Okay. Granted that probably won't happen, but do you wanna take any chances?
All that really matters to me is that poor little Philomena here gets well.
That's very noble of you. I'll write to you when you're banished. Unless I'm banished too somewhere there's no post office. Then you'll have to write to me. Deal?
Please, Twilight. You just have to help me get Philomena healthy and then we can return her to the princess. And everything will be fine.
Did you give her any kind of medicine?
I tried to, but she wouldn't take it.
[groan] Then you have to make her take it. You can't be such a pushover, Fluttershy! You need to show this patient who's the boss. Make her straighten up and fly right!
She can't fly.
No excuses!
Done. Okay, what else?
Uh... well, she keeps pulling her feathers off. The ones that haven't fallen out yet from all her coughing, I mean.
There you go.
I don't think she likes it.
Tough love, baby. You want her to get well, don't you?
Of course, but...
Next!
Well, she desperately needs some bed rest, but I can't get her to stay put.
One step ahead of you.
It's for your own good, Philomena, I promise. Please, just relax and try to get some sleep.
What's this soup over here? Smells delicious.
I made it for Philomena. But she wouldn't eat it.
Oh, she'll eat it, all right.
Hey! Where are you going?
No! Philomena! Come back!
What are you two doing? Are you having a race? Oh, can I play? One, two, three, go!
Excuse me!
Hi!
Beg your pardon!
Put me down!
What in tarnation?!
Sorry, but we've gotta find...
The princess's pet bird!
Philomena, come down from there! You'll hurt yourself!
I'll catch you!
What is going on here? Twilight?
Yes, your Majesty, there's been a terrible accident.
It's all my fault.
No, Princess. Fluttershy didn't know any better. It was my fault.
I'm the one who did it.
But you were only trying to help.
Some help I was.
Will ya let me do this? She'll go easier on me.
But it's my fault!
No, it's my fault!
No, it's my fault! Wait, what are we talking about?
Thanks for trying to protect me, Twilight, but... Princess Celestia, I'm the one who took your pet bird. I really was only trying to help the poor little thing. Then I was gonna bring it right back to you, honest. So, if you wanna banish me and then throw me in a dungeon in the place that you banish me to, then that's what I deserve.
Oh, stop fooling around, Philomena. You're scaring everypony.
I don't understand! What is that thing? What happened to Philomena?
This is Philomena. She's quite a sight, as I said. But nothing unusual for a phoenix. Isn't that right, Philomena?
A... A phoenix?
A phoenix is a majestic and magical bird. While it appears healthy and happy most of the time, every so often it must renew itself by shedding all of its feathers and bursting into flame. [silently] Rather melodramatic, if you ask me. [loud again] It then rises from the ashes, fresh as a daisy. All just a normal part of the life cycle of a phoenix. I'm afraid mischievous little Philomena here took the occasion to have a little fun with you, Fluttershy. Say you're sorry, young lady.
So... aren't you gonna banish me? Or throw me in a dungeon? Or banish me and then throw me in a dungeon in the place that you banish me to?
Of course not, my little pony. Where on Earth would you get such an idea?
I guess I have some imagination.
Fluttershy really did do everything she could to try to take care of Philomena for you.
And I do appreciate that your heart was in the right place, child. But all you had to do was ask me and I could have told you Philomena was a phoenix and saved you all this trouble.
I know. I shouldn't have jumped to conclusions. Next time I'll ask before taking matters into my own hooves.
Should I write you a letter about that lesson, Princess?
No, that's quite all right. I think I can remember.
It's beautiful. Thank you, Philomena. No hard feelings.
Hmm... [indistinct whispers] Hey, you know what you should do? You should go over there and tickle them!
[gulp] Are you sure about this, Scootaloo? I've never even heard of a pony zip lining before.
Neither have I, but Spike told me it was awesome!
Whoa!
Oh!
Wah!
Ow!
See anything?
Tree sap and pine needles but no cutie mark.
Plan B?
Yeah. You know where we can find a cannon at this hour? It's no use! No matter what we try, we always end up without our cutie marks. And, surprisingly often, covered in tree sap.
Maybe we should do something less dangerous, like pillow testing or flower sniffing.
This town is full of ponies who have their cutie marks. Why don't we ask them how they did it?
That's a great safe idea.
Yeah! And we can start with the coolest pony in Ponyville.
Applejack!
Rarity!
Come on, guys, I said "cool"! You know who I'm talking about. She's fast. She's tough. She's not afraid of anything!
Pinkie Pie?
No! The greatest flyer ever to come out of Cloudsdale.
Fluttershy?
No! Rainbow Dash!
Oh! Yeah, that makes much more sense.
Of course!
Let's do it. Let's find out how Rainbow Dash earned her cutie mark!
Yeah!
Aah! Uuh!
Get back here, you thievin' varmints!
Thievin' what now?
Apple Bloom?
Hey sis! How'd you get your cutie mark?
I never told you that story?
Hey! I thought we were gonna ask Rainbow Dash.
We need all the help we can get.
Ugh. Fine.
Why, shoot. I was just a little filly. Even littler than y'all.
[voiceover] I didn't want to spend my life on a muddy old apple farm. I wanted to live the sophisticated life, like my Aunt n' Uncle Orange. So I set out to try my luck in the big city, Manehattan! The most cosmopolitan city in all of Equestria.
Hey! Outta the way, you rube!
[voiceover] I knew I'd find out who I was meant to be in Manehattan.
Aunt Orange! Uncle Orange! Thank y'all so much for lettin' me stay!
"Y'all". [laughs] Isn't she just the living end?
[chuckle] How quaint.
Don't worry. We'll have you acting like a true Manehattanite in no time.
And how are you finding good old Manehattan?
Oh, it's simply divine.
Very well said, my dear.
Although, I must admit the city noise took some getting used to. Where I'm from, nights are so quiet, you seldom hear a peep until the roosters wake you.
The... what?
I say, my dear, what in the world is a "rooster"?
[voiceover] What's he talking about? What do I say? I don't wanna look like a fool.
Dinner is served.
Thank goodness. Being a city pony's hard work. I'm so hungry I could eat a...
Cock-a-doodle-doo... Oh, I wonder what Granny Smith and Big McIntosh are up to. I bet they're applebuckin' their way through the Red Delicious trees. Oh, what I wouldn't give for just one bite...
[voiceover] I never felt so homesick in all my days as I did right then.
[voiceover] It was amazin'! A rainbow pointin' right back to... home. In that moment, it all became clear. I knew right then just who I was supposed to be. That's when this here appeared.
I've been happily workin' in the farm ever since.
There they are! Get back here, ya thievin' varmints!
Aw. That was such a sweet story!
Sweet? Try sappy. [mock-gags] Come on! We've got to find Rainbow Dash and hear the cool way to get a cutie mark.
All right, little ones. This way. This way. You really should be more careful. Somepony could get hurt. Why are you in such a hurry anyway?
We're trying to find Rainbow Dash, so we can hear how she earned her cutie mark.
Oh, that would be interesting. You know, I wouldn't have gotten my cutie mark if it weren't for her.
Rainbow Dash?! Really?!
Oh yes. It all started at Summer Flight Camp.
[voiceover] You'd never guess, but when I was little I was very shy. And a very weak flyer.
Young "Dumb-Bell": [laughter] Nice going, "Klutzershy"! They oughtta ground you permanently.
Ha! My baby brother can fly better than you!
[voiceover] It was the most humiliating moment of my life. And then, out of nowhere...
Leave her alone!
Ooh, what are you gonna do, "Rainbow Crash"?
Keep making fun of her and find out!
Young "Dumb-Bell": You think you're such a big shot? Why don't you prove it?
Whaddya have in mind?
You're going down!
In history, maybe. See you boys at the finish line!
[screaming] Huh?
[voiceover] I had never seen such beautiful creatures. Butterflies don't fly as high as my cloud home. And I'd never been near the ground before.
What is this place Filled with so many wonders? Casting its spell That I am now under
Squirrels in the trees And the cute little bunnies Birds flying free And bees with their honey
Hooooonneeeeeeey!
Oooh, what a magical place And I owe it all to the Pegasus race If I knew the ground had so much up its sleeve  I'd have come here sooner, and never leave
Yes, I love ev-er-ythiiiiing!
Shhh. It's okay. You can come out. Everything's okay. There's nothing to be afraid of.
[voiceover] Somehow I had the ability to communicate with the animals on a different level.
Wait, wait, wait. What happened to Rainbow Dash? What about the race?
Oh. Well, I wasn't there, so I don't really know what happened.
Come on, Crusaders. We've gotta find her. Besides, I can't take anymore singing.
Maybe my sister knows where she is. Bye, Fluttershy!
Bye, girls!
How did we get roped into this? Oh, we'll never hear Rainbow Dash's story.
Are you girls still obsessing over your cutie marks?
Of course! Most of the fillies at school already have theirs.
Mmm, I know how you feel. For the longest time I couldn't figure out why I didn't have mine.
Rarity' Well done, Rarity. Your costumes are very nice.
Nice?! They need to be spectacular! And the performance is tomorrow!
[voiceover] I tried every trick I could think of, but nothing seemed to work. The costumes just weren't right. And the play opened that night.
Maybe I'm not meant to be a fashionista after all... Aah! What's going on?!
[voiceover] I had no idea where my horn was taking me. But unicorn magic doesn't happen without a reason. I knew this had to do with my love of fashion and maybe even my cutie mark! I knew that this was... My destiny!
A rock?! That's my destiny?! What is your problem, horn? I followed you all the way out here for a rock?! [groans] Dumb rock!
Ooh!
Ugh! These namby-pamby stories aren't getting us any closer to our cutie marks! They're all about finding who you really are and boring stuff like that.
Yes, Scootaloo, that's exactly...
Come on, girls! We need action! We need Rainbow Dash!
As a young filly in Canterlot, I always wanted to go to the Summer Sun Celebration, where Princess Celestia raises the sun.
[voiceover] And I saw the most amazing, most wonderful thing I've ever seen.
[voiceover] I poured myself into learning everything I could about magic.
[voiceover] My parents decided to enroll me in Princess Celestia's School for Gifted Unicorns. It was a dream come true! Except for one thing... I had to pass an entrance exam!
Well, Miss Sparkle?
Well, Miss Sparkle?
We don't have all day.
[voiceover] I knew it was the most important day of my life, that my entire future would be affected by the outcome of this day and I was about to blow it!
I'm sorry I wasted your time.
Aah!
Twilight Sparkle.
Oh, I'm so sorry. I didn't mean...
You have a very special gift. I don't think I've ever come across a unicorn with your raw abilities.
Huh?
But you need to learn to tame these abilities through focused study.
Huh?!
Twilight Sparkle, I'd like to make you my own personal protégé here at the school.
Huh?!
Well?
Yes!
One other thing, Twilight.
More? My cutie mark! Yesyesyesyesyesyesyesyesyesyesyesyesyesyesyesyesyes...
...yesyesyesyes...
Okay, okay.
We're happy for you, Twilight.
Yeah, thrilled. Let's get out of here while we still can.
...yesyes, yeeees!
Are you okay?
[giggle] Um... yes.
Ugh! Why don't we ever smash into Rainbow Dash?!
You're looking for Rainbow Dash? If I was her, I'd be at Sugarcube Corner. Of course, if I was anyone, I'd be at Sugarcube Corner. Hey! I have an idea! Wanna go to Sugarcube Corner?
Well, we're sort of looking for Rainbow Dash, so we can hear how she got her cutie mark.
Cutie mark? Come with me and I'll tell you how I got mine!
[sigh] Why not?
All right!
[voiceover] My sisters and I were raised on a rock farm outside of Ponyville. We spent our days working the fields. There was no talking. There was no smiling. [sigh] There were only rocks. We were in the south field, preparing to rotate the rocks to the east field when all of a sudden...
[voiceover] I'd never felt joy like that before! It felt so good I just wanted to keep smiling forever! And I wanted everyone I knew to smile too, but rainbows don't come along that often. I wondered, how else could I create some smiles?
We better harvest the rocks from the south field.
Pinkamena Diane Pie! Is that you?
Mom! I need you and dad and the sisters to come in. Quick!
Surprise! You like it? It's called... a party!
Oh. You don't like it. [gasp] You like it! I'm so happy!
And that's how Equestria was made!
Wha... huh?
Look! We're here!
Maybe on the way home I can tell you the story of how I got my cutie mark. It's a gem!
Oh, come on. She's just being Pinkie Pie.
Ugh...
Rainbow Dash! You're here!
I hear you're looking for my cutie mark story.
[sigh] You have no idea what I've been through today to hear that story.
It all happened during the race at Flight Camp...
[voiceover] ...where I stood alone against all odds to defend Fluttershy's honor.
[voiceover] I've never flown like that before! That freedom was unlike anything I've ever felt! The speed, the adrenaline, the wind in my mane... I liked it... a lot!
Ow!
Ha! Later, Rainbow Crash!
Hey!
[voiceover] Turns out the only thing I liked more than flying fast... was winning!
[voiceover] Most people thought that the sonic rainboom was just an old mare's tale. But that day... The day I discovered racing... I proved that the legends were true. I made the impossible happen!
And that, little ones, is how you earn a cutie mark.
Whooooaaaa...
Wait a second. I heard that explosion. And I saw the rainbow too. Rainbow Dash, if you hadn't scared the animals, I never would have learned I could communicate with them and gotten my cutie mark.
I heard that boom! And right afterwards, there was this amazing rainbow that taught me to smile.
When I got my cutie mark, I saw a rainbow that pointed me home. I bet it was your sonic rainboom!
There was an explosion I could never explain when I got my cutie mark.
This is uncanny! If that explosion didn't happen when it did, I would have blown my entrance exam. Rainbow Dash, I think you helped me earn my cutie mark too!
Whoa!
We all owe our cutie marks to you!
Do you realize what this means? All of us had a special connection before we even met.
We've been BFFs forever and we didn't even know it!
Come here, y'all.
AWWW!!!
I'm so glad we're friends!
I love you, guys!
Awwww...
Hey. How about a song?
Definitely!
Nooooo!
Dear Princess Celestia,
Today I learned something amazing. Everypony everywhere has a special magical connection with her friends, maybe even before she's met them. If you're feeling lonely and you're still searching for your true friends, just look up in the sky. Who knows? Maybe you and your future best friends are all looking at the same rainbow.
Gross! When did you get so cheesy?
Just write it, Spike.
This meteor shower tonight's gonna be amazing!
Awesome!
You know, this shower only happens once every 100 years.
A centennial celebration!
We better get a move on!
Don't wanna be late! Whoa, whoa, whoa! [sigh] There.
Spike, did you grab my quill and ink?
Check!
Scrolls?
Check! I've also packed a telescope, apples, bananas, fruit punch, and my freshly baked homemade triple-decker nut-crazy vanilla cream cookies!
[giggle] I can see that. Once again you've read my mind, Spike. And that is why you are my number one assistant.
I'm sorry. I didn't hear you.
That is why you are my number one assistant.
Missed that! Huh...?
I said... [giggle] Come on, let's get going. Wait! I almost forgot! I wanna bring the "Astronomical Astronomer's Almanac to All Things Astronomy".
The Astronomo-lomo homono what?
You know that really old big blue book on stars, moons, planets, the universe...?
Hey! What's taking my number one assistant so long?
I was sure I put the astronomer's guide back. The book would have helped me identify different planets and stars tonight.
Well... Maybe someone borrowed it? Besides, you don't need that book. You can already name all the planets and stars, 'cause you're super smart and astronomically awesome!
Thanks, Spike. You're such a flatterer.
Yeah, I'm a sweet talker.
And a number one assistant, right?
Check!
[munch] [gulp] Wow, Twilight! You're lucky to have such a rad assistant. I wish I had someone to do whatever I told them.
Ooh! Ooh! Me! Me! Me! I'll do whatever you want, Rainbow Dash!
Oh yeah, pipsqueak? How about taking out the trash?
Yes ma'am!
Do we have Spike to thank again for this amazing spread? Isn't he simply amazing?
Oh, come on. [pause] I said come on.
Little Spikey-wikey! Who knew that big ferocious dragon started off so cutesy wootsy?
Spike, you are such a little star that I had to make a little bow tie for you.
Gosh. You guys are embarrassing me. Stop it. [pause] Twilight, your turn.
Spike, that's enough.
Oh, right. That's enough.
Hey, everypony! The show is starting!
Wow...
[yawn] Huh?
Mmm. Wow! These cookies are delish!
Spike made them. Speaking of, Spike, can you bring us some punch? Spike?
Oh, poor little thing.
Aww... He's worked himself to the bone.
And now the punch has been... "spiked"!
Goodnight, Spike. [giggle] Sweet dreams, number one assistant. [sigh] "The Study of Comets. Comets are small, irregularly shaped bodies that are made of nonvolatile grains and frozen gases. They..."
Huh. "...have body structures that are fragile and diverse..."
Shoot! Oh... This is a job for Spike. If only he were awake...
Hoo!
Wait! Don't go! Don't be afraid. Thank you for returning my scroll.
Hoo! Hoo! Hoo-hoo.
Gosh, it's cold tonight. Say, would you like to relax in here and keep me company while I work?
Hoo! Hoo!
Now, where was I? Oh, yes. "...fragile and diverse with a surrounding cloud of material called a coma, that grows in size and brightness as the comet approaches the sun..."
[snoring] Huh? Waah! I overslept! I know it's already ten, but I'm scaly-tailed and bright-eyed and ready to work twice as fast! Oh please, don't be upset, Twilight! And what do you want for breakfast? Oatmeal? How about a sunflower smoothie? Grass pancakes?
Spike, don't worry.
But my morning chores...
It's okay. Owlowiscious did them for you.
Who?
He's our new junior assistant. He's gonna help out with your chores so you won't be so tired all the time.
Wha... Wh... What do we need a junior assistant for? I'm not tired. I do fine on my own. I don't need sleep, I...
Spike, don't worry. He's just here to help out a little. Now, I have to go out, so why don't you introduce yourself to Owlowiscious? He's in the library.
Worried? Do I look worried? I'm not worried. Who's worried? Hello? Hellooo! Whoa! Dude, that's creepy. Uh... Hi there! I'm Spike. I'm sure Twilight has told you all about me.
Hoo.
Uh, Spike? You know, assistant number one?
Hoo?
I'm Spike! And who are you? What are you?
Hoo!
Who?
Hoo!
I thought your name was Owlowiscious!
Hoo?
Okay, "Who", "Owlowiscious", whatever. I'm Spike, okay? Look! All you need to know is that I'm number one and you're number two. Got it?
Hoo?
So, a man of mystery, huh? I'm keeping my eye on you! I've got eyes in the back of my head too, you know? [crash] Well, not really, but... You know what I mean!
That bird is out for my job. He wants to be number one. I'll prove to Twilight that I deserve to be number one. Not Freaky Feathers over there. I won't let him have my job if it's the last thing I do!
Oh, what a fantastical, flufflicious feathery little friend! I'm... Hooked!
He's just wonderful.
[mocking] "He's just wonderful." Uh, yes. Wonderful. He's quite... the charmer.
And Owlowiscious is just such a star I just had to make this little bow for you.
Grrr!
What's he all saddle sore about?
He's probably just jealous of Owlowiscious.
Maybe Spike feels threatened or worried that Owlowiscious will replace him?
Replace him? Hah! That's crazy! Spike knows he can't be replaced.
They're trying to replace me! I better step it up and make sure that Twilight and Owlowiscious know that I'm still number one!
Hey, Spike! Can you fetch me that book called "Two-headed Myth—
...Mythological Mysteries!" I know where it is.
Thanks, Owlowiscious. Hey, Spike, no worries. Owlowiscious flew up and got the book for me. Oh, and gee! I guess I need "Ferrets of Fairyland" too.
Hey! Whoa! Whoa!
Climb down from there before you fall.
Grrr!
Shoot!
Yes, sir!
My last writing quill. It's broken.
Never fear! Spike, your number one assistant, is here! [under his breath] Quill... Quill... Where is it? Not here... Quill... Quill, where is it...?
Hoo.
Where am I gonna get a quill?
Spike, wait! Wait!
But the store is called "Quills and Sofas". You only sell two things!
Sorry, Junior. All outta quills until Monday. Need a sofa?
I swore I had one here somewhere. Ah, here it is! A quince!
Not a quince. A quill!
Not a quiche. [pronounced correctly] A quill!
Nope. Sorry. All outta quills.
[sigh] Shoot.
Come on, chicken! Here, chicky-chicky-chicky! Here, chick-chick-chick-chicky! Come here! Ugh! Come here! [grunting] Not the face, not the face! No! Hey! Stop! Quit it!
[panting] Spike... to the rescue.
Oh, Spike. I was calling out for you when you were turning this place upside down. Owlowiscious gave me one of his feathers to use as a quill.
That's just great. Perfect! Sweet! I think I'll just, uh... finish up the rest of my chores! Or did Owlowiscious already do them?
Oh, no no. There are quite a lot of them.
Poor Spike. He'll come around. He's genuinely a good little guy.
Huh?
Spike. What is this? You said this book was missing. Well, Owlowiscious found it right where it belongs, but like this. How did it get this way?
Uh... Well, um... You see, I... I just didn't wanna disappoint you and, uh... Have you ever seen a dragon sneeze?
I've seen a dragon lie. I'm very disappointed in you, Spike.
[to Owlowiscious] You set me up! Well, two can play that game.
Hoo!
Not "who"! Two! Urgh!
Owlowiscious is out to take my place, I just know it! I've gotta stop him. But how?
Ah... Muahahaha!
Come along, Opal. Let's hurry up and get to Fluttershy's tea party.
So lifelike. And when Twilight discovers it shredded up on her floor, she'll think mouse-eating Owlowiscious is to blame. And I'll be number one... again! Muhahaha!
[evil laugh] That poor little field mouse! Torn to pieces! It must have been Owlowiscious! You know, since owls eat, you know, mice. What a terrible, terrible bird! He must be punished! Right?
Spike! I don't know what upsets me more. That you deliberately tried to set up Owlowiscious or that you actually thought this pathetic attempt would work! You've let your jealousy get the best of you, Spike. I am truly disappointed. This is not the Spike I know and love.
She... She doesn't love me anymore.
Twilight hates me. I'm cold, hungry, tired and lonely. Could it get any worse?
I guess that's a yes. Hello? Hello?
What is that? If this is what running away is all about, I never wanna go home! Gems! Mmm... Woohoo!
[hiccup] Even if my tummy's full, the rest of me is still empty. I miss Twilight and the pony gang. But she doesn't love me anymore. So, I'm better off here, all by myself. Wow. Seems to be getting warmer. The steam is great for my complexion, but it's sure getting hot in here.
What are you doing in my cave? And why are you eating my gems?
Heyah bro! I didn't know this was your cave. And I didn't know these were your gems, but... we're cool, right?
Whoa, whoa! Hey... We're like brothers, you know? I mean, you're a dragon, I'm a dragon... It's us against the world, right?
You don't scare me! So you're big.
Really big. And your claws are super sharp. Tail... extra spiky. But, uh... You don't scare me! Ha! How'd you like that? Uh... I'd love to stay, but gotta go! See ya! Wouldn't wanna be ya! Aah!
Hoo-hoo!
Spike! Over here!
Am I glad to see you!
Hurry! Hop on! It's too dark! I can't see!
Hoo! Hoo-hoo!
[pants] Spike. We were so worried about you. I was so worried about you. Why did you run away?
I thought you didn't need me anymore. And that you didn't love me anymore.
Spike. Sure, I was disappointed, but you are my number one assistant! And friend. And you always will be. It's just that sometimes I need some help at night. I can't ask you to stay up late. You're a baby dragon and you need your rest. Owls are nocturnal. So I asked Owlowiscious to help. But not to take your place. No one could ever replace you, Spike. Not even when you are being a jealous numbskull.
I'm sorry, Twilight. I never should have been so jealous.
And I'm sorry too, Spike. I should have been more sensitive.
And Owlowiscious... I know now that you weren't out to take my job. Forgive me?
Hoo?
Me. Forgive me, Spike.
Hoo!
[giggle] He forgives you, Spike.
Hey! How did you guys know where I was?
It was your ketchup-covered feet. Owlowiscious discovered your footprints and we followed them all the way to the cave.
I know Princess Celestia will wanna read about what happened today...
I'm ready when you are.
Hey, Spike. Why don't you write to Princess Celestia? And tell her what you've learned?
Really? Why, that's a big responsibility!
I know. But nothing my number one assistant can't handle.
Dear Princess Celestia,
Oh, Spike.
Hoo?
Oh! Hi, Pinkie Pie...
This is your singing telegram I hope it finds you well You're invited to a party 'Cause we think you're really swell
Gummy's turning one year old So help us celebrate The cake will be delicious The festivities first-rate
There will be games and dancing Bob for apples, cut a rug [pop] And when the party's over We'll gather 'round for a group hug
No need to bring a gift Being there will be enough Birthdays mean having fun with friends Not getting lots of stuff
It won't be the same without you So we hope that you say yes So, please, oh please R.S.V.P. And come, and be our guest!
[rasping voice] Next time, I think I'll just pass out written invitations.
Nice one! Now, let me show you how it's really done.
Hey, girls!
Hey, Pinkie Pie!
Howdy!
[squeal] Just wanted to tell you how happy I am that you could make it to Gummy's party.
Are you kiddin'? I wouldn't have missed it for the world.
Me neither. When Pinkie Pie throws a party, I am there! Ta-da!
Aw! It's just a boring old apple. Don't worry, there are plenty of other surprises in there.
[spits] What kind of surprises?
I can't tell you that, silly. Then it wouldn't be a surprise.
This punch is simply divine. Is this the same recipe you used for your "Spring Has Sprung" party?
Nope! Something new.
It's Gummy's favorite.
Ooh, this is my jam!
Having fun?
A blast!
You always throw the best parties, Pinkie Pie.
They're always the best parties 'cause my best friends are always there!
Yah!
C'mon, everypony! Gummy wants to dance! Go, Gummy! It's your birthday! Go, Gummy! It's your birthday!
Hoo-wee! I am beat! I haven't danced that much since... Well, since your last party. Thanks again for the invite!
See ya later, birthday alligator!
Bravo for hosting yet another delightful soiree.
It's been lovely.
You sure you don't wanna stay? There's still some cake left.
Uh, I think I'm gonna pass. Great party though. We should do this again soon.
[gasp] We should do this again soon!
Oh! Hi, Pinki-
It's soon!
Pardon me?
You said we should have another party soon, and... it's soon! Here's your invitation!
"You're invited to Gummy's 'after-birthday' party. This afternoon at 3 o'clock."
All our bestest friends are invited, and there's gonna be dancing, and games, and cake, and ice-cream, and punch!
This afternoon? As in, "this afternoon" this afternoon?
Yes, indeedy!
Oh, gosh. I wish I could make it, but I've gotten a bit behind in my studies. I've really gotta hit the books.
I understand. Your studies come first. But don't worry, we'll be sure to save you some cake.
Please do.
Oh! And Twilight, you shouldn't hit the books. You should really just read them.
I'll keep that in mind.
Huh? Oh, hi, Pinkie Pie! What brings you 'round these parts?
Who's ready to shake their hoof-thang?! It's an invitation to Gummy's "after-birthday" party this afternoon. There's gonna be dancing, and games, and cake, and ice-cream, and punch!
This afternoon? A-as in, "this afternoon" this afternoon?
That's funny. That's just what Twilight said, and the answer is, "Yes! It's this afternoon!"
Uh, well, I... I... uh... I don't think I can make it 'cause... uh... I have to... uh... uh, you know what? I... uh... pick apples! Yep, apples! 'Cause that's what we do! With the... apples. We, uh... pick 'em!
Okey-dokey-lokey! A party is still a party, even if there are only three guests.
[grunts] Anything else I can do for you, most beautiful one?
[sniff] [whimper] Hmm... perhaps you could take a bath. How do I put this delicately? You smell like a rotten apple core that's been wrapped in moldy hay and dipped in dragon perspiration.
Ooh! Love the new hat. Very modern. What's the occasion?
Gummy's "after-birthday" party is this afternoon. I'm delivering the invitations.
The party is this afternoon? As in, "this afternoon" this afternoon?
It's so strange. Everypony keeps saying that.
Oh... do they?
I know it's short notice, but we had such a great time at his birthday party, I thought we could have even more fun at his after-birthday party.
And I'm sure that we would, but I'm going to have to decline. I have to... wash my hair!
Don't be silly, your hair doesn't look dirty.
It doesn't?
Nope!
See? [gag] Dirty! I have to go!
Huh... No Twilight, no Applejack, no Rarity. Oh well, a party is still a party even with only two guests.
This afternoon?
As in...?
Yes! As in, "this afternoon" this afternoon!
Oh, man! We'd love to, but... we're... house-sitting this afternoon.
[sigh] Both of you?
It's... uh... a big house.
Uh, look at the time! We'd really better get going.
Wait! Maybe I could bring you some after-birthday cake and ice-cream. Who're you house-sitting for?
Harry.
Harry?
Yeah, I don't think you know him.
That's strange. I know just about everypony around here.
He's... a bear.
A bear?
Yup! He's a bear all right, and he'll be pretty upset if we don't get over to his house soon.
Wait! There's a bear around here who lives in a house?
It's, uh, really more of a cave.
But he's fixed up the place so much, it feels like a house.
And, uh, he wants us to look after his house... uh, cave... while he's, uh...
A-at the beach!
He's vacationing at the beach?
Yup! He loves to...
Gotta go!
Something strange is definitely going on around here, Gummy. Sure Rainbow Dash and Fluttershy had to house-sit for that vacationing bear, but what are the chances all my other friends would have plans this afternoon too? Rarity has to wash her hair? Applejack has to pick apples? Twilight is behind on her studies and has to hit the books? The more I think about it, the more those are starting to sound like... [gasp] excuses!
That doesn't look like studying... or hitting!
Mrs. Ooh! You must be here for...
Shh! Is Pinkie Pie around?
Mrs. Oh, I don't think so.
Good. I don't wanna her to know anything about this.
Mrs. Yes, of course. I'll be right back.
But... we're friends. What wouldn't Twilight want me to know anything about? [gasp] She's coming back.
Mrs. There you go.
Time to get to the bottom of things! [gasp] I think our cover's been blown! We'll need a new disguise.
She didn't see you at the sweet shop, did she?
I don't think so.
Oh, good. I'd hate for her to ruin everything.
Me too.
Have you seen her?
Not since this morning.
Me neither. Can you believe she was planning on throwing an after-birthday party today?
I'm just glad I was able to come up with an excuse for why I couldn't be there.
Me too! This is obviously going to be so much better.
As long as we keep her from finding out about it, it will.
[whispering] See you later!
I thought everypony loved my parties.
Hi, Pinkie Pie! Uh-oh!
Rainbow Dash! Wait!
Phew...
Where're you going?!
Ah!
What's the real reason you didn't want to come to Gummy's party?!
What's in those bags?!
Applejack! We have a problem!
I know you're IN THERE!
Oh! Howdy, pardner!
Mind if I... take a look inside the barn?
No! Uh, I mean, yes, I mean... you can't come in here!
Rainbow Dash just went in there.
Oh, well, she was just bringin' in some... supplies! Yup, supplies for the... renovation! Fixin' up the whole thing, top to bottom... uh, lots of construction goin' on in there right now.
[whispering] You heard her! Construction!
Okey... dokey... lokey.
Secrets and lies! It's all secrets and lies with those ponies! They're up to something, Gummy! Something they don't want me to know about! Well, I'm gonna know about it! I'm gonna know about it big time! And I know just who's gonna tell me all about it. Tell me all about it big time!
Wow! Nice spread!
It's all yours, Spike. All you have to do is talk.
That's it? Oh, you got it. Okay... uh, beautiful weather we're having, eh? I love a sunny spring day, don't you? The birds chirpin' and the flowers bloomin'.
No, no, no. Talk about our friends.
Oh, okay. Let's see, there's Twilight Sparkle. She's a unicorn. Good with magic. A real brainiac. And then you got Rarity. Total knockout. Twilight seems to think I don't even have a chance with her, but... eh, what does she know? Let's see. There's... there's Fluttershy, a Pegasus who's afraid of heights. Heh, what's up with that?
Grr! No! You're not understanding me! I want you to confess!
Confess?
Confess!
I'm the one who spilled juice all over Twilight's copy of "Magical Mysteries and Practical Potions"!
And?
And I'm the one who used up all the hot water in Ponyville yesterday when I took a seven-hour bubble bath!
Aaand?
And sometimes... when no one's around... I do this: Lookin' good, Spike! Lookin' real good!
No! No! No! No!
W-What do you wanna hear? Tell me what you want me to say, and I'll say it!
Your friends are all lying to you and avoiding you 'cause they don't like your parties and they don't want to be your friends anymore!
Aha! I knew it! [balloon deflating noise] Oh no, my friends don't like my parties and they don't want to be my friends anymore.
Thank you all so much for coming! It means so much to Gummy.
Could I have some more punch?
This is one great pahty! You really outdone yourself!
Why, thank you, Rocky.
I'm having a delightful time as well.
Might I trouble you for anozer slice of cake?
Anything for you, Madame le Flour.
Pinkie Pie [as Rocky]: I'm just glad none o' them ponies showed up.
Oh, they're not so bad.
Not so bad? Puh-lease! They're a buncha losers!
Oh, c'mon now. "Losers" might be a little strong, dont'cha think?
After the way they treated you? I say "losers" isn't strong enough.
Well, it was pretty rude...
Pretty rude? It was downright deespicable!
It was, wasn't it?
Mr. If I were you, I wouldn't speak to them ever again.
You know what? I'm not gonna speak to them ever again. And I'm not gonna invite them to another party as long as I live! They don't deserve to be invited to my parties. [plink] Not after the way they've been acting.
[clapping] Deeespicable!
Such losers!
Yes, zat's right.
Pinkie Pie [as Mr. Turnip]: Well done.
Pinkie Pie [as Sir Lintsalot]: Yeah!
Pinkie Pie [as Rocky]: You show 'em!
Who could that be?
Hey there, Pinkie Pie! Sorry I was in such a rush earlier. Had some place to be and couldn't slow down and say, "Hello." You know how it goes.
I know how it goes, all right!
Yeah... so, why don't you come with me over to Sweet Apple Acres?
No thanks. I'm spending time with my real friends. Isn't that right, Madame le Flour?
Pinkie Pie [as Madame le Flour]: Oui! Zat iz correct, madame.
Uh... Pinkie Pie?
Another slice of cake, Sir Lintsalot?
Pinkie Pie [as Sir Lintsalot]: I'd love one.
Aaallrighty. What do you say we get on out of Creepytown and head over to Applejack's...
Pinkie Pie [as Mr. Turnip]: She's not going anywhere.
I most certainly am not. I'm having a wonderful time right here.
You should really just come with me.
Pinkie Pie [as Rocky]: You heard the lady! She ain't goin' nowheres, chump!
Who you calling a chump, chump?! Ugh... That's it. Party's over. Come on, Pinkie Pie!
No!
Pinkie Pie, let's go!
I said no!
You... [grunts] have to... come with... me!
No... I... Don't!
Oh, you wanna do this the hard way?! We'll do this the hard way!
[grunting] [panting] We're... here...
Twilight Sparkle, Applejack, Rarity, [in unison] Surprise!
I really thought she'd be more excited.
Excited? Excited?! Why would I be excited to attend my own farewell party?!
Farewell party?
Yes! You don't like me anymore, so you decided to kick me out of the group and throw a great, big party to celebrate! A "Farewell to Pinkie Pie" party!
Why in the world would you think we didn't like you anymore, sugarcube?
Why? Why? Why?! Because you've been lying to me and avoiding me all day, that's why!
Uh, yeah! Because we wanted your party to be a surprise.
We'd been planning this party for such a long time, we had to make excuses for why we couldn't attend Gummy's party so that we could get everything ready for yours.
If this is a farewell party, why does the cake I picked up from Sugarcube Corner say "Happy Birthday, Pinkie Pie"?
[squeak] Because it's my birthday! Ooh, how could I have forgotten my own birthday?
And you like me so much you decided to throw me a surprise party!
That's what we've been trying to tell you, darling.
You girls are the best friends ever! How could I have ever doubted you?
It's okay, Pinkie Pie. It could have happened to any of us.
Uh-huh! It sure would.
Don't worry about it.
I'm just glad I haven't been replaced by a bucket of turnips.
Huh?
You don't wanna know.
All right, girls! Enough of this gab. Let's party!
Dear Princess Celestia,
I am writing to you from the most delightful party. I'm not only having a great time with my friends, but also was given the opportunity to learn a valuable lesson about friendship. Always expect the best from your friends, and never assume the worst. Rest assured that a good friend always has your best interests at heart.
Your faithful student,
Twilight Sparkle
You girls wouldn't mind if we celebrated Gummy's after-birthday party too, would you? His party was cut short, and he's pretty upset about it.
Oh, definitely.
Aww, he was upset?
Uh-huh, sure!
For Gummy, yeah!
Ahh! I... can't... believe... the Grand... Galloping... Gala... is... tonight!
Pinkie! Please stop shouting, I'm trying to concentrate.
Pinkie Pie! Stop that right now. It's time to prepare for the Gala, and I refuse to let you put on your new dress when you're all sweaty.
What's Twilight doing?
She's got an awesome magic spell she's been working on for the Gala.
Where are the others? It's getting late.
Hold your horses, girl. We're here.
Perfect! I'm ready.
For what?
All right, Spike.
An apple! Are we having pie?
Shh! Watch!
Thanks. But that's just the start. Fluttershy, did you bring your friends?
Yes. Will they be safe, Twilight?
You have my word.
Ta-da!
Neat, huh? And don't worry. They'll be mice again at midnight.
Opalescence, no!
Wait! Come back! Those horses were supposed to pull our carriage. How will we get to the Gala?
Whatever shall we do?
Uh... ahem. Excuse me. Uh, would you boys mind pulling our carriage to the Gala?
Oh. Yeah. Right.
Ooh!
Come on, you guys. Let me in!
Sure thing, Spike.
Heavens no! We're getting dressed.
Dressed? Uh, beg pardon, Rarity, but, uh... we don't normally wear clothes.
[moan] I'm sorry, Spike. Some of us do have standards.
I still can't believe we're gonna be at Canterlot tonight. Our hometown, Twilight! And the best part is that we all get to hang out together all night long!
Uh... I-I don't know, Spike.
We'll just have to see.
We're gonna be a mite busy.
Oh. Okay.
Don't worry, Spike. We'll all get to spend some time together.
Great!
'Cause I planned out my insider's tour of Canterlot. I've gotta show Rarity the crown jewels, and Applejack the Princess's golden apple tree. And Pinkie, we gotta go to my favorite donut shop.
Then let's get moving! Hyah!
Excuse me!?
Um... I...
If you weren't friends with our neighbor Rarity... Hmph.
Whoa! You all look... amazing!
I can't believe we're finally here. With all that we've imagined, the reality of this night is sure to make this... The Best Night Ever!
At the Gala
At the Gala
At the Gala In the garden I'm going to see them all All the creatures I'll befriend them at the Gala
At the Gala
All the birdies And the critters They will love me big and small We'll become good friends forever Right here at the Gala!
All our dreams will come true Right here at the Gala At the Gala
At the Gala (It's amazing) I will sell them (Better hurry) All my appletastic treats (Yummy yummy) Hungry ponies (They'll be snacking) They will buy them (Bring your money) Caramel apples, apple sweets (Gimme some) And I'll earn a lot of money for the Apple family!
All our dreams and our hopes from now until hereafter All that we've been wishing for will happen at the Gala At the Gala
At the Gala All the royals They will meet fair Rarity They will see I'm just as regal at the Gala
At the Gala
I will find him My Prince Charming And how gallant he will be He will treat me like a lady Tonight at the Gala!
This is what we've waited for to have the best night ever Each of us will live our dreams Tonight at the Gala At the Gala
Been dreamin' I've been waitin' To fly with those great ponies The Wonderbolts, their daring tricks Spinning 'round and having kicks Perform for crowds of thousands They'll shower us with diamonds The Wonderbolts will see me right here at the Gala!
All we've longed for All we've dreamed Our happy ever after Finally will all come true Right here at the Grand Gala At the Gala
I am here at the Grand Gala For it is the best party But the one thing it was missing was a pony named Pinkie For I am the best at parties, all the ponies will agree Ponies playing Ponies dancing With me at the Grand Gala!
Happiness and laughter at the Gala At the Gala
At the Gala (At the Gala) With the Princess (With the Princess) Is where I'm going to be (She will be) We will talk all about magic and what I've learned and seen (She will see) It is going to be so special As she takes time just for me (This will be the best night ever!)
Into the Gala we must go We're ready now, we're all aglow Into the Gala, let's go in and have the best night ever Into the Gala, now's the time We're ready and we look divine!
Into the Gala
Meet new friends
Into the Gala
Sell some apples
Into the Gala
Find my Prince
Prove I'm great
As a Wonderbolt is
To meet!
To sell!
To find!
To prove!
To whoop!
To talk!
Into the Gala Into the Gala And we'll have the best night ever! At the Gala!
Yeah! This is gonna be the best night ever. You know why? 'Cause we're all gonna spend time at the Gala to... gether. Or not.
Princess Celestia!
Twilight! It is so lovely to see my star student.
Oh, I'm so excited to be here! We have so much to catch up on.
Well, I want you right by my side the entire evening, so we'll have plenty of time together.
That's just what I was hoping you'd say.
[gasp] [squeals of excitement] Hurry, Rarity... Oh, but not too fast. But don't wanna lose him... Wait! Have to play it cool. Oh, but don't be cold! I can't lose him, I can't! He's everything I imagined! Even better than I imagined.
Oh my! A meadowlark!
Howdy, partner! You hungry?
As a horse!
Well, what'cha hankering for? Caramel apple? Apple pie? Apple fritter? Apple fries?
I'll take that big apple pie!
Well, thank you kindly, sir! Yee-haw! In the first minute, I made my first sale. Just like I expected.
Always hungry after a show. Eh, Soarin?
Heh. Yeah! [gasp] My pie! You saved it. Thanks.
Hey, no prob.
Hey! I know you. You're the pony that saved us in Cloudsdale and won The Best Flyer Competition.
Hay yeah! Name's Rainbow Dash.
Well, Rainbow Dash. Looks like your skills saved us again. Oh, well, at least they saved Soarin's apple pie.
[eating noisily] Yeah...
Wanna come hang out with us?
The shiny dance floor... The pretty party ponies... Ooh, the fancy band... Shiny! Pretty! Fancy! [anxious noise] Gotta dance!
I'm at the Grand Galloping Gala, I'm at the Grand Galloping Gala, I'm at the Grand Galloping Gala, It's all I ever dreamed.
It's all I've ever... dreamed?
Well, hello. I am Prince Blueblood.
I am... Rarity. Oh my, what a lovely rose.
You mean... this rose? Thank you. It goes with my eyes.
[gasp] My little meadowlark is right around this bend!
Was that you?
Oh! Yes... Well... Excuse me.
Oh! I see a toco toucan! And a spider monkey! And, oh! Is that a wallaroo? Oh, Fluttershy. You're such a loudmouth.
Hey, Spitfire! You ever done a rain cloud double backflip? [to Soarin] You ever soared past lightning? It's awesome!
Welcome to the Grand Galloping Gala.
Princess! I've been so excited to spend time with you and...
Yes. Me too, Twi... Oh, good evening! Welcome to the Gala. Which is why I... Ladies! Lovely to see you again.
[sigh] Looks like getting a chance to talk to the Princess is gonna be a magic trick in itself.
First minute, first sale. Second... Fourth... Sixth... Sixtieth minute... no sales. [sigh] This ain't what I expected at all.
I'm at the Grand Galloping Gala... and it's not what I dreamed.
This isn't at all what I imagined.
[in background] Good evening! So nice to see you. Welcome!
This isn't what I hoped.
This isn't hanging out.
This isn't what I wished for.
No!
I waited all my life...
...for this moment!
And I'm not going to...
...let it slip by!
If it's the last thing I do...
...I'm gonna make this...
...the best night ever!
I just have to be more bold, like Twilight says. [loudly] I'm so sorry to have scared you, my friends! But I'm leaving now, so you can all come out!
Gotcha! It's okay. I promise not to hurt you. I just wanna be your... friend?
Mr. Mmm... Sounds good to me.
Just give him a chance, Rarity. His princely side is sure to come out if you're just patient.
Miss Rarity! Stop!
Oh. Prince Blueblood! How chivalrous.
One would hate to slip.
Yes. One certainly would.
One's cloak should take care of the problem.
Oh, of course it will.
[gasp] [whispering] C'mon, everypony! I know what will make you shake those groove-thangs!
You reach your right hoof in You reach your right hoof out You reach your right hoof in And you shake it all about You do the Pony Pokey meeting lots of folks with clout That's what I'm talking about
You step your left hoof in You pull it right back out You step your left hoof in But you better help him out You do the Pony Pokey but should find a different route That's what it's all about
You kick your back left in You pull your back left out You reach your back left in Just be brave and have no doubt You do the Pony Pokey feeling like you're gonna pout That's what I'm singing about
You tilt your head in You tilt your head out You tilt your head in Then you shake it all about You do the Pony Pokey even though your date's a lout You're better off without
You stomp your whole self in You stomp your whole self out You stomp your whole self in And you stomp yourself about You do the Pony Pokey and you give a little shout-
COME OUT!
That's what I'm talking about
You do the Pony Pokey You do the Pony Pokey You do the Pony Pokey And that's what it's all about
Yeah!
Young lady, this is not that kind of party.
Ohhhhhh... They don't want a party. These ponies want a paaartay!
Two apple fritters, please.
Two apple fritters comin' right up. That'll be four bits.
Ahem.
Ahem.
Ahem!
Ahem!
[sigh] I'm going to have to pay, aren't I?
It's okay, Rarity. I got you covered.
Thank you, Applejack. At least somepony here has good manners.
[barf] Oh! Fritters! Dumplings! Caramel apples! My royal lips have touched common carnival fare! I'm going to the buffet for some... hors d'oeuvres.
Well, no wonder nopony wants my food. They're fillin' up on those fancy-schmancy vittles. Well, my down-home apples are plenty good enough for this crowd. I'll just dress 'em up a bit and prove it to 'em.
I'll catch you yet, my pretties. Oh yes. As soon as one of you little birds or monkeys or bears touches this net... you'll be mine! Mine! [evil laugh] Whoa!
Come on, everypony! You wanted a partay? Now it's paaartaaay! Yeah! Uh! Now that's a beat, yeah! Uh! C'mon, dance! Yeah, woohoo!
Okay, all you high-class ponies. Here's a highfalutin apple cake for your hoity-toity taste buds.
Stage dive!
[angry growl] You, sir, are the most uncharming prince I have ever met! In fact, the only thing royal about you is that you are a royal pain!
Ewww...! Uh, stay back! I just had myself groomed!
This is my chance! Yes! Whoa!
Well... it can't get any worse.
You're... going to love me!
Um, um, uh... Eugh.
Run.
Ooh! Rarity, your glass slipper! Now your prince is sure to find you.
[shriek] No! Ugh! Let's go!
Hey, Pony Joe. Another donut.
Don't you think you've had enough?
Another donut! Extra sprinkles!
Twilight Sparkle! Ha, ha. Long time no see.
Hey, how was the Gala? How was your best night ever?
That sounds like the worst night ever!
I just hope Princess Celestia isn't upset with us for ruining the Gala.
That was the best Grand Galloping Gala ever!
Princess Celestia!
Pardon me, Princess, but tonight was just awful.
Oh, Twilight. The Grand Galloping Gala is always awful.
It is?
That is why I was thrilled you were all attending. I was hoping you could liven things up a bit. And while the evening may not have gone as you planned, I'm sure you'll agree that in the end it didn't turn out so bad for this group of friends.
You're right, Princess. Friends have a way of making even the worst of times into something pretty great.
Yeah! Hanging out with friends!
Talking!
Laughing!
You mean doing exactly what I wanted to do the whole time?
Yes, Spike. You were right.
As horrible as our night was...
...being together here has made it all better.
In fact, it's made it...
...the best night ever!
I want to start our field trip here, in the world-famous Canterlot sculpture garden. That one over there represents "Friendship". All right, my little ponies, this one represents "Victory".
How cool would it be to have that for a cutie mark?
Cool, if you were actually victoryful at somethin'.
That's not a word!
What are you, a dictionary?
Girls! Now this is a really interesting statue. What do you notice about it?
It's got an eagle claw!
And a lion paw!
And a snake tail!
This creature is called a draconequus. He has the head of a pony and a body made up of all sorts of things. What do you suppose that represents?
Confusion!
Evil!
Chaos!
It's not chaos, you dodo!
Don't call me things I don't know the meaning of! And it is too chaos!
Is not!
You're both wrong!
Actually, in a way, you're all right. This statue represents "Discord", which means a lack of harmony between ponies. In fact, you three have demonstrated discord so well that you're each going to write me an essay explaining it.
Now let's go, and I don't want anymore fighting.
It's confusion!
Evil!
Chaos!
Come back here, you! Gotcha! Eww, what is this? Cotton candy?
Wait a second! It's not supposed to rain until tomorrow. You can't just–
You did.
Hey, I didn't tell you to go anywhere!
Rainbow Dash, what's going on with this rain? I mean chocolate milk? I mean chocolate milk rain?!
There's crazy weather all over Equestria! Cloudsdale is getting soaked by a major cola storm right now! But don't worry. I'm not leaving you until I get control of Ponyville!
Ahem. I heard about your troubles, Applejack, and I came to see if there's anything I can do without getting wet. Or dirty. Or out from under my umbrella.
Fluttershy! Do somethin'!
Now, Angel, you really shouldn't– No! It's not possible! I must be seeing things!
Don't worry, everyone. I've learned a new spell that'll fix everything. My fail-safe spell... failed. What do we do?
Uh, give up?
Spike, Twilight will come up with something.
Hmm, time for plan B. Rainbow, can you corral all those clouds in one corner of the sky? Applejack, I need you to bring those high-strung storm clouds down to Earth.
Hey, what happened?
Oh dear. I hope none of the animals see these delicious chocolate-filled cotton candy clouds. I'd hate to have to share them.
You and me both, sister! Hey!
And when y'all are done with that, feel free to have some popcorn for dessert.
You see, Spike? You should never give up. There's nothing we can't overcome if we all work together.
[gasp] Come on, girls. Princess Celestia wants to see us all in Canterlot immediately!
Princess Celestia, we came as fast as we could!
Thank you, Twilight. Thank you, all.
Is this about the weather? And the animals' weird behavior? What's happening out there? Why isn't my magic working? Is there–
Follow me.
I've called you here for a matter of great importance. It seems an old foe of mine, someone I thought I had defeated long ago, has returned. His name... is Discord.
Discord is the mischievous spirit of disharmony. Before my sister and I stood up to him, he ruled Equestria in an eternal state of unrest and unhappiness. Luna and I saw how miserable life was for Earth ponies, Pegasi, and unicorns alike, so after discovering the Elements of Harmony, we combined our powers and rose up against him, turning him to stone.
All right, Princess!
I thought the spell we cast would keep him contained forever, but since Luna and I are no longer connected to the Elements, the spell has been broken.
No longer connected?
This is Canterlot Tower, where the Elements are kept inside since all of you recovered them. I need you to wield the Elements of Harmony once again and stop Discord before he thrusts all of Equestria into eternal chaos.
But why us? Why don't you–
Hey, look! We're famous!
You six showed the full potential of the Elements by harnessing the magic of your friendship to beat a mighty foe. Although Luna and I once wielded the Elements, it is you who now control their power, and it is you who must defeat Discord!
Princess Celestia, you can count on–
Hold on a second! Eternal chaos comes with chocolate rain, you guys. Chocolate rain!
Don't listen to her, Princess. We'd be honored to use the Elements of Harmony again.
Ooh. You can keep the Elements. I'll take that case!
Have no fear, ponies. I have total confidence that you will be able to defeat Discord with these!
Oh, well. If anyone needs me, I'll be outside in the chocolate puddles with a giant swizzle straw.
The Elements! They're gone!
That chamber is protected by a powerful spell that only I can break! This doesn't make sense!
[laughter] Make sense? Oh, what fun is there in making sense?
Discord... Show yourself!
[chuckling] Did you miss me, Celestia? I missed you. It's quite lonely being encased in stone, but you wouldn't know that, would you, because I don't turn ponies into stone.
Enough! What have you done with the Elements of Harmony?
You'll never get away with this, Discord!
Oh, I'd forgotten how grim you can be, Celestia. It's really quite boring.
Hey! Nopony insults the Princess!
Oh, you must be Rainbow Dash, famed for her loyalty, the Element of Harmony you represent.
That's right! I'll always be loyal to the Princess!
We'll see about that.
I can't believe we're wasting our time talking to a tacky window.
The beautiful Rarity, representing the element of generosity, if I'm not mistaken?
So you know who we are, big deal.
Oh, I know much more than that, honest Applejack.
You seem to know our strengths too.
Pinkie!
[laughing] He's standing on your head!
Stop stalling, Discord! What have you done with the Elements of Harmony?
Can we go home now?
What do you reckon he meant? Twists and turns and ending back where we started?
Twists and turns... twists and turns... twists and turns! That's it! I bet Discord hid the Elements in the palace labyrinth!
Good luck, my little ponies. The fate of Equestria is in your hooves.
Thanks, Princess. We won't let you down.
W-We have to go in there?
Nope! Dopey Discord forgot about these babies! I'll just do a quick flyover and we'll have the Elements in no time. My wings!
Your horn! My horn! Ahhh!
Give us our wings and horns back!
You'll get them back in good time. I simply took them to ensure there's no cheating. You see, this is the first rule of our game: no flying, and no magic.
The first rule?
Never fear, girls. We have each other!
Yeah! Like Twilight said, there's nothing we can't overcome if we all stick together!
All right, girls, let's do this!
Stay calm, girls! Everypony head to the middle as fast as you can, and we'll regroup there!
Moving out!
See you in the center.
Yee-haw!
See you guys there!
[gasping] What's that? Who's there? Girls!
What in tarnation? Where am I?
Who are y'all?
The keepers of the grove of truth. You may ask us...
Light- ...one question...
...past, future or present.
But be warned...
Light- ...that the truth...
...may not always be pleasant.
All right then. I don't trust this place worth a hill of beans, but I've got a really bad feelin' about this feller Discord. What's gonna come of this mission we're on?
For the answer you seek...
Light- ...go ahead, take a peek.
I hope I never see you again!
Me too!
Fine!
Fine!
It's settled then.
No! Our friendship? Over?!
It can't be true. It just can't!
That just can't be the truth.
Light- When all the truth does...
...is make your heart ache...
Applejack! Thank goodness! I thought I heard voices over here. Who were you talking to?
I was talking to... uh... nopony! Nopony whatsoever!
What?
Nothing. Come on, uh, we best be going.
Did Applejack just...? Come on, Twilight! Applejack wouldn't lie.
Hey, what gives?
What's the matter, Pinkie Pie? I thought you appreciated a good laugh?
It's different. They're laughing at me.
It's hardly different. Your friends laugh at you all the time.
My friends laugh with me, not at me.
No! Stop it!
Stop laughing at me!
Oh, poor Pinkie Pie. And here I thought laughter made you happy.
[gravelly] Happy? I don't think so.
Pinkie Pie! Are we glad to see you!
Oh you are, huh? Why? Need a good laugh?
Pinkie? What do you suppose has her so upset? It's not like her.
I didn't notice anything strange about Pinkie.
Weird. Better pick up the pace before the stress of this gets the better of all of us.
I was expecting an audience with the Princess, not outdoor sport. Agh. Oh my...
[laughing] Welcome to your lucky day, Rarity. You've found the one thing in Equestria that could rival my face for sheer beauty. What do you think? You like?
Yes... I like very much... No! No, I shan't succumb to such fabulousness. Must... get to the center... to meet... the others. [grunt] Mine!
Rarity! Are we glad to see... Why are you carrying a humongous boulder?
[teeth chatter] Okay, I can do this. I can... [scream] Oh, wait a minute... Butterflies? Wait! Don't leave me here!
Fluttershy, looks like you've been left behind by your so-called friends, huh?
Oh, no. I'm certain they're doing their best to find me.
Well, it must be so upsetting to know how weak and helpless they think you are.
Not at all. I am weak and helpless and I appreciate their understanding.
Yes... Well, surely it burns you up... I mean, that they're always pointing out your flaws, right?
Not really. In fact, I think I'm awfully lucky to have friends who want me to be the best I can be.
Oh, for goodness sake! You've been kind for far too long, my dear. Time to be cruel. Arrivederci!
Fluttershy! I'm so glad to see a friendly face. This awful labyrinth is getting to everypony.
Grrr...
Aw, boo-hoo-hoo! Why don't you wave your magic little horn and make everything all right?
Uh...
Oh, that's right, you can't. You don't have one.
What is happening to my friends?
And what are you laughing at?
Chocolate milk.
Little help here! Thanks, Twilight.
You're welcome–
But don't get any ideas about my gem! I know where you live.
I've got you now, element.
Oh. I can see why you like these clouds so much. Very plush.
Get off there and put 'em up! Come on! Let's go!
Hey, I'm here to deliver a message.
I've got a message for you too!
Listen closely, this is important. A weighty choice is yours to make: the right selection or a big mistake. If a wrong choice you choose to pursue, the foundations of home will crumble without you.
Cloudsdale? Crumble... without me? No!
That box contains your wings. You can take them and leave the game, or you can carry on aimlessly wandering this maze. Your choice.
Must... find... Rainbow Dash. As a team... we're unstoppable. Rainbow Dash won't let us down.
Well, looky there. Rainbow Dash is flying away. She's abandonin' us.
Now I know that's a lie. [gasp] How can it be?
Princess Celestia, we came as fast as we could.
I need you to wield the Elements of Harmony once again and stop Discord.
The Elements! They're gone!
[laughter] Everypony has to play, or the game is over and I win.
Our friendship...over?
Who are you talking to?
Nopony! Nopony whatsoever.
What?
Pinkie Pie! Are we glad to see you!
Why? Need a good laugh?
What is happening to my friends?
And what are you laughing at!?
Oh, you ponies are just the most fun I've had in aeons.
Well, quit it! You'd better think before you laugh at the Pink...ie Pie!
Oh, yeah? Well ha, ha.
Quit it!
No. Ha, ha.
Quit it!
No. Ha ha-ha ha ha.
Uh... Rarity? This here diamond of yours? Twilight said we should split it six ways since we, uh, found it together.
HI-YAH! Try it, punk. He's mine. All mine! Ya! Ya! Ya!
Girls, why are you all acting like this?
Quit it! Stop it!
We need to stick together.
Ha, ha.
[laughter] It's just too entertaining.
Stop it, Discord. You're not playing fair.
I'm not playing fair? Perhaps we haven't met. I'm Discord, spirit of chaos and disharmony. Hello?
How are we supposed to find the Elements of Harmony when you took away the labyrinth before we could get to the end?
Oh, wait, did you...? [laughter] How funny! You thought the Elements were in the labyrinth?
Twists and turns are my master plan. Then find the Elements back where you began.
I never said they were in the labyrinth.
But...but...
Keep trying, Twilight Sparkle. [mockingly] Maybe the magic of friendship can help you. Now if you'll excuse me, I have some chaos to wreak.
Chocolate milk? I hate chocolate milk!
[grunt] Think, Twilight, think! "Find the Elements back where you began." Back where you began.
Don't touch my gem!
I'm touching your gem, Rarity. Ha, ha.
What 'chu laughin' at?
Ugh. I just want to go home... Wait a minute... Home! "Back where you began!" The Elements must be in... Ponyville! Come on, girls. I'm certain this is what Discord's riddle really meant. If we get back to the library, I have a book that I just know can give us a clue. Ah!
Good boy, Angel. Mama's so proud.
Wow, I can see so much better now. Whoa! I meant to do that.
Wah! Ahh! Whoa! Discord's turned our dirt roads into soap!
Beautiful, isn't it? This is the new and improved Ponyville, and these are only my first of changes.
This may look like fun, but it's not.
Ugh.
Picture it. The chaos capital of the world.
Well, wait a few minutes and you'll see it in the beautiful light of day. Or not.
Ponyville, the chaos capital of the world? Not if I have anything to say about it.
[sigh] Okay, we're here. Everyone please, please, please just go inside, please?
I absolutely refuse.
With pleasure.
I hate libraries!
Pleeeease, we gotta hurry!
Forget it, Twilight. I know what you're up to. The second I go in, you'll have your little minion Spike come and take Tom!
Tom?
Well, it's not going to work.
You're not going in without him, are you?
Mm-mm.
[grunting] Fine!
Ah! Brrr! What did you do that for, Fluttershy?
'Cause you just looked so peaceful.
I...uh...huh?
Careful, Twilight! You'll ruin his beautiful finish.
Oh, for the love of...
Twilight, what's going on? Why does everybody look so...gray?
Don't ask. I need you to help me find something.
Hey, Twilight, what's soaking wet and clueless?
What's happened to everypony?
I guess you just bring out the worst in us, Spike.
Ugh. No time to explain. We've got to find the reference guide to the Elements of Harmony before somepony does something she'll regret!
The Elements of Harmony? Oh, I know exactly where that book is. Found it!
Hah!
Fluttershy, you'd better give me that book!
[sing-song voice] Keep away!
Hey! Applejack, give me that book!
I don't have any book.
Pinkie! You guys! Stop it right now!
Ugh!
Mine!
Hey, do you even know what you just stole?
No, but if you want it, I want it!
[strained groan] GIVE ME THAT BOOK!
Where is she? Where's Rarity?
Beats me.
Lies!
Get back! All of you! This is my book, and I'm going to READ IT! [gasp] The Elements!
The Elements! They were here all along!
This is great! Now you guys can defeat Discord and put everything back to normal!
See, girls? We did it! We found the Elements of Harmony! Together!
You don't even care, do you?
No!
[sigh] I never thought it would happen. My friends... have turned into complete JERKS! Necklace! Necklace! Necklace! Necklace! And... big crown thingy! Come on, everypony, let's go!
But Twilight, aren't you missing somepony?
Nope. We've got the liar, the grump, the hoarder, and the brute. That just about covers it.
But what about Rainbow Dash?
Congratulations, Spike, you're the new Rainbow Dash. Now let's go!
[gasp] Me? B-b-but what if she finds out I've been impersonating her? [moan] That won't end well.
Too bad, you're Rainbow Dash. Now let's go defeat Discord so we don't ever have to talk to each other again!
Yeah! Woo-hoo!
Move! Look out, here comes Tom!
Well, well, well, I see you've found the Elements of Harmony. How terrifying!
Discord! I've figured out your lame riddle. You're in for it now!
I certainly am. You've clearly out-dueled me, and now it's time to meet my fate. I'm prepared to be defeated now, ladies. Fire when ready.
Formation, now!
Eh.
"Rainbow Dash", get over here.
All right, let's get this over with. What's going on?
Mine's workin'. There must be somethin' wrong with yours.
I HATE the Elements of Harmony!
Hmph! Garbage.
MINE!
Sorry, Twilight. I guess I'd better get back upstairs and clean up the library. Good luck with all this– whoa!
It's your fault it didn't work.
Who are you talking to?
Any of you! ALL OF YOU! I'm outta here!
I better go, too. I've got new better friends waiting for me at the farm.
Yeah! I'm sick of you losers.
FINE! Leave! See if I care! I don't need you guys either! With friends like you, who needs...enemies...?
[laughing] Oh, my stomach! Twilight, you've got to see what I just did.
It's priceless! [laughing] Come now, Twilight Sparkle. You've got to get into the spirit of things! After all, this is your new home.
Not anymore...
Pack your things, Spike, we're leaving.
Don't ask where we're going, 'cause I don't know yet. Just not here.
Can't...move. The princess...has been sending these...since I came back upstairs. [belch] Make it stop!
These are all the letters I've written to the princess since I've lived in Ponyville. But why would she send them back?
"Real friends don't care what your cover is."
"Friendship is a wondrous and powerful thing."
"And like the path cut through the orchard, there will always be a way through."
"The best thing to do is stay true to yourself."
"Everypony has a special magical connection with her friends. Maybe even before she's met them."
Spike! Spike, it's all so clear! Can't you see? Discord's trying to distract us from what's important. He knows how powerful our friendships are, and he's trying to keep us from seeing it. Do you remember what I said the first day we arrived in Ponyville? I told you that the future of Equestria didn't rest on me making friends. But the opposite is true! The friendships I've made since I've been here are what saved Equestria from Nightmare Moon. And now they need to save it from Discord!
You're right, Spike. I've got to fight for my friendships. For them. For me. For Equestria!
Oh...uh...why don't you just stay here and rest? I'll take care of the whole fighting for friendship thing myself.
And so I tried to defeat Discord, but none of my so-called "friends" would lift a hoof to help me.
Applejack, I'm here to fight for our friendship.
Oh, now you want to fight. Where you went when I was battlin' Discord?
Snap out of it. This isn't you! You're not a liar.
Wh-what happened? Twilight! [sigh] I saw a vision of us feudin' and fightin'. I couldn't face the truth, so I started tellin' lies. Can you ever forgive me?
I already have. Come on!
Oh no! Twilight, Applejack, I just had the worst dream!
What do you think you're doing? Get away from my gem! Get away--! [grunting] Let us never speak of this again.
[laughter] And I-I turned gray! [giggle] Can you believe it?!
Uh? She's not here.
Without Rainbow Dash, we can't use the Elements.
She could be anywhere by now! We're never gonna find her.
Yeah, we will, 'cause she's right there!
Rainbow Dash!
Hey, guys!
We've been looking everywhere for you!
That's nice.
Discord's still on the loose! We need you to help us defeat him with your element, Loyalty!
Pfft. Loyalty, schmoyalty! Have you guys seen Ponyville? It's a disaster! I'm staying here in Cloudsdale where everything's awesome.
How in Equestria can she think that tiny patch of clouds is Cloudsdale?
The same way he got you to think that cheap rock was a bona fide diamond.
I thought we agreed never to speak of that again.
Time for Plan B.
[whispering] Okay, Fluttershy, you grab Rainbow Dash and hold her down. Applejack will lower me down from this rope so I can cast the memory spell on her.
Got it!
Um...I'm just wondering if it's okay if I hold you down against your will for a little bit?
Ugh...
Nice try! Ponyville's your problem, not mine.
Come on, Fluttershy, we've got to catch her. Hyah! Applejack!
WHOA!
PINKIE! You were supposed to secure the ROPE!
Oops.
Rarity, Pinkie, hold on! Y'all are slowing her down!
Oh, Fluttershy, would you be a dear and FLY FASTER, please?
[whimper/crying] I can't!
If you can't catch her, Discord wins!
That big... dumb... MEANIE!
Okay, Applejack, last rope! Make it count!
Lemme go! I don't need you guys! Leave me alone! Wh-what happened? [gasp] How's Ponyville? Where are the Elements?! Did we stop Discord?
Maybe it's a little early for a group hug.
[laughter] Chaos is a wonderful, wonderful thing.
Not as wonderful as friendship.
Oh, this again?
That's right. You couldn't break apart our friendship for long.
I'll tell you what we've learned, Discord: we've learned that friendship isn't always easy, but there's no doubt it's worth fighting for!
Ugh, gag. Fine, go ahead. Try and use your little Elements. Friend me. Just make it quick. I'm missing some excellent chaos here.
All right, ladies, let's show him what friendship can do!
Huh. What's this? No. NO!!!
We are gathered here today to once again honor the heroism of these six friends who stood up to the villain Discord and saved Equestria from eternal chaos.
Quill.
Check.
Parchment.
Check.
Extra ink.
Check.
Extra extra ink.
Check.
Is that everything on the checklist?
Yep.
Great. Now that we've completed the checklist of things we need to create a checklist, we can make my checklist of the things I have to get done by the end of the day. Ready?
Ready!
Item one: create checklist of the things I have to accomplish by the end of the day.
How are we doing, Spike?
Let's see... We've already dropped off your cape at the cleaners, returned the blackboard you borrowed from Cheerilee, ordered new parchment and quills from the stationery shop...
Hmm... Seems like we just placed an order for those a few days ago.
Can't imagine why we go through so many of them.
Sounds like we're ahead of schedule. What's next?
Cupcakes!
Whoa...
Uh, I only ordered twelve.
Oh, I know, dear, but I had an extra. So I thought I'd make it a baker's dozen.
Uhhh-no!
Oh, that was very thoughtful of you. It's just some of the icing from the extra cupcake is getting all over the one next to it. See?
Ohh... sure...
It's just that I'm planning on sharing these at a picnic later and I don't want anypony to feel like somepony else is getting more icing.
Oh, no... of course not.
Not to worry, I'll just move some of this one to... hmm... I think I may have scooped too much... oops! Now those two have more. Let's just try this again... Hmm, no, that won't do. Let me just... hmm... put some here, and... no, that's not right. A little more on this one, a little bit... and wait... I'll just... ooh, a little bit here, and here, and... perfect!
Hmm, oh yes... much better...
Okay, time to tackle the next item on our-- oops! Looks like we're going to have to add 'give a baby dragon a bath' to our list.
Very efficient! And a little bit gross.
Eh.
Looks like that's everything!
Almost everything.
"Triple-check checklist to make sure we didn't miss anything when we double checked the checklist!" Uh... check! Ugh... I've been holding that quill so long, I've got a claw cramp! Well, good thing we don't have anything to report to Princess Celestia this week... I don't think I could write another word!
We haven't sent a letter to Princess Celestia this week?!
Why? Is that bad?
Bad? BAD? Of course it's bad! I'm supposed to send Princess Celestia a letter every week, telling her about a lesson I've learned about friendship! Not every other week, not every ten days, every... single... week!
Huh?
Ohh... Where's my calendar, where's my calendar?!
Where it.. always is?
When did we send the last one?
Last... Tuesday?
And today is...
Tuesday?
Argh! Nononononononono! If I don't send her a letter by sundown, I'll be... tardy!
What's that now?
Tar-dy, Spike! Late, I'll be late! Oh, how could I let this happen? I'm usually so organized. I've never been late with an assignment.
Oh, please! You're the most studious student ever! I'm sure the Princess will forgive you if you miss one little deadline.
I'm afraid to take that chance, Spike. This is the ruler of all of Equestria we're talking about. The pony who holds my fate in her hooves! What if she doesn't forgive me?
Yeah... I don't think she--
What if instead she starts thinking I'm not taking my studies on friendship seriously?
Why would she--
What if she makes me come back to Canterlot and puts me back in school and makes me prove I've been taking them seriously by giving me a test?! What if I don't pass?!
Well, why wouldn't you pass--
She's my teacher. Do you know what teachers do to students who don't pass? They send them back a grade! But she won't just send me back a grade. She'll send me back to... magic kindergarten.
Twilight? Twilight!
Huh?
That is the most ridiculous thing I've ever heard! You're not going to be sent back to magic kindergarten.
You're right. I have no reason to worry. Because I'm going to solve a friend's problem and get that letter to Princess Celestia before sundown!
So... got any problems, troubles, conundrums, or any other sort of issues, major or minor, that I as a good friend could help you solve?
Huh. Hmm. Huunh. Huh... I got nothin'.
[sigh] Then it looks like I'm going to have to find somepony who does.
[sigh] This won't end well.
You've got this, Twilight. You still have plenty of time to get that letter to Princess Celestia! Has to be somepony who needs the help of a good friend!
Rarity!
Don't worry, Rarity! I'm here!
[sobbing] Why me-e-e-e-e-ee... [gasp] WHYYYY?! Why? Why-y?! And of all the worst things that could happen, this is THE. WORST. POSSIBLE. THING!
What's happened? Are you alright?
[gasp] I've lost my diamond-encrusted purple ribbon! I have searched high, and I have searched low. Low and high! High and low! But I can't find it anywhere! Anywhe-e-e-e-ere! How can I possibly finish my latest creation if I can't find it?!
Never fear, Rarity. As your friend I'll do my best to help you fi--
Oh, there it is. Isn't it always just the last place you look?
So... you just lost your ribbon?
Mm-hm!
But now you've found it?
Yuh-huh.
And nothing else is bothering you? Nothing that I, as a good friend, could help you with?
Hmm... there is one thing.
Yes?
I think I left my measuring tape under the fabric over there. Could you get that for me?
[sighs] Measuring tape? Sure.
Twilight? Is there something bother-- Twilight?
No need to panic. Rarity is just one pony. I'm sure one of my other friends will need me.
What in the world...? Rainbow must be angry with Applejack! She must hate her guts! How wonderful! Rainbow Dash! Stop! Listen, Rainbow. I know you're upset with Applejack, but don't worry. Whatever it is that has come between you two, I'm sure that I, as a good friend, can help you resolve your problems.
Uh, what are you talking about?
Oh, Rainbow Dash, you don't have to hide your feelings from me! I can tell you two must've had a terrible fight.
Now, why don't you tell me all about your issues with Applejack.
I don't have any issues with Applejack.
You don't? Then why are you destroying her property?
Because she asked me to. Right, Applejack?
Yes, ma'am. I wanted to put up a new barn, but this one's gotta come down first. Hehe. Now get back to it, R.D.
You got it, boss!
I'd take cover if I were you.
[sigh] I can't believe I wasted all that time. I should have just come here first. Fluttershy always has some fear she's trying to get over. As a good friend, I'll be able to help her.
Fluttershy?
How can this be happening? Of all the days she had to stop being such a scaredy-pony, she had to pick today?! What am I going to do?!
You really should have come to me sooner. You were carrying so much tension in that shoulder.
It's fine. It'll all be fine. The day isn't over yet. But it will be over soon!
[groans] It'll be all over! My time in Ponyville! My advanced studies! Nono. You're a good student. You can do this. Ooh! But what if I can't? You can! You just have to keep it together. Keep. It. Together!
Are you talking to... yourself? Twilight?
Snap out of it!
Huh?
Are you okay?
Twilight, I'm really worried. I mean this letter thing is really getting to you. Here. You've been so anxious all day that you completely forgot about the picnic. Why don't you just relax and go hang out with--
The picnic! I should go see my friends!
I'm glad you've come to your senses.
Please tell me I did not forget the plates. [gasp] I did. I totally forgot them. Of all the worst things that could happen, this is THE. WORST. POSSIBLE. THING! [cries] Why, why, why... Uh... What? You didn't expect me to lay on the grass, did you?
You alright, hun?
No! I am not alright.
It's just terrible.
Applejack, Fluttershy, Pinkie Pie, Rainbow Dash, Yes?
Simply awful.
Applejack, Fluttershy, Pinkie Pie, Rainbow Dash, Yes?!
It's the most horrific trouble I've ever been in and I really really really need your help!
Applejack, Fluttershy, Pinkie Pie, Rainbow Dash, YES?!
My letter to Princess Celestia is almost overdue, and I haven't learned anything about friendship!
Oh, thank goodness. I thought something really awful had happened.
[strangled noises] Something awful has happened! If I don't turn in the letter on time, I'll be tardy! TARDY!
No offense, sugarcube, but it looks like somepony's gettin' themselves all worked up over nothin'.
This is not nothing. This is everything. I need you guys to help me find somepony with a problem I can fix before sundown! My whole life depends on it!
Come on now. Have a seat and stop sweatin' the small stuff.
Wow. I've never seen Twilight so upset before.
Oh, what a drama queen. Mm. Relatively speaking...
Clock is ticking, Twilight. Clock. Is. Ticking. Keep it together. If I can't find a friendship problem... I'll make a friendship problem!
Oh, hi, Twilight. How's it go--
Gr-eat. Just great. You three look like you're doing great too! Looks like three good friends who obviously don't need the help of another good friend. This is Smarty Pants. She was mine when I was your age, and now I want to give her to you!
Uhh... she's... great.
Yeah. Great.
I really... like her... mane.
She even comes with her own notebook and quill, for when you want to pretend she's doing her homework!
That's... um... great.
Yeah... great.
I really like her... mane?
I just hope the fact that there are three of you and only one of her doesn't become a problem! I'd hate to cause a rift between such good friends. So, who wants to play with her first?
Uh... You should play with her first, Sweetie Belle. Y'know, 'cause you like her mane so much.
Nonononononono. I think Scootaloo should get to play with her first.
I'd love to, but, um, you take her, Apple Bloom.
Applejack says it's important to share.
[thinking] I gotta think of something! Thinkthinkthinkthinkthink Twilight, think! [gasp] That's it! [aloud] Ooh, you're going to like Smarty Pants. And you're going to like her more than anything.
[gasp] I want it.
I need it.
I really like her mane!
The 'want it, need it' spell. Works every time. Okay, okay, let's break it up. I think we can all see that there is an important lesson to be learned here about-- Ugh! C'mon, girls, we're all friends here, right? Don't you think you ought to share?
No way!
[annoyed groan] Big McIntosh! Thank goodness! You've gotta help me get that doll away from those girls!
Eeyup.
Oh, thank you so much. Now if you could just give her to me?
Nnnope.
Oh no!
Give her back!
What's all the commotion about?
They're fighting over that doll!
That incredible, amazing doll!
Gimme!
Nope.
Oh, what have I done?!
Y'all hear that? What in the name of all things oats 'n apples is goin' on here?!
Don't look at it!
Don't look at what?
My Smarty Pants doll! I enchanted her and now everypony is fighting over her!
Why would you enchant your doll?
Oh, I had to do something! I had nothing to report to Princess Celestia! I thought if I couldn't find a problem, I'd make a problem! The day is almost over!
Not almost!
Twilight Sparkle!
Whoa nelly.
Meet me in the library.
Goodbye, girls. If you care to visit, I'll be in magic kindergarten, back in Canterlot.
Magic kindergarten?
Canterlot?
We're never gonna see Twilight again!
Uh, what are we gonna do, y'all?
Of all the worst things that could happen, this is THE. WORST. POSSIBLE. THING! What? I really mean it this time!
But...but... I'm supposed to send you a letter about friendship every week. I missed the deadline. I'm a bad student! I'm... tardy!
You are a wonderful student, Twilight. I don't have to get a letter every week to know that.
Really?
Wait!
You can't punish her!
It wasn't her fault!
I'm listening.
Please, your Highness. We all saw that Twilight was upset.
But we thought that the thing she was worrying about wasn't worth worrying about.
So when she ran off all worked up, not a single one of us tried to stop her.
As Twilight's good friends, we should have taken her feelings seriously and been there for her!
Please don't take her away from us just because we were too insensitive to help her.
Looks like you all learned a pretty valuable lesson today.
Applejack, Fluttershy, Pinkie Pie, Rainbow Dash, Mm-hmm.
Very well. I'll forget Twilight's "punishment" on one condition.
From this day forth, I would like you all to report to me your findings on the magic of friendship when, and only when, you happen to discover them.
Princess Celestia, wait! How did you know I was in trouble?
Your friend Spike made me aware that you were letting your fears get the best of you. I commend him for taking your feelings seriously. Now, if you will all excuse me, I must return to Canterlot. I'm expecting some mail.
Y'all heard the Princess. Spike, take a letter.
[clears throat] Dear Princess Celestia,
We're writin' to you because today we all learned a little somethin' about friendship.
We learned that you should take your friends' worries seriously.
Even if you don't think that she has anything to worry about.
And that you shouldn't let your worries turn a small problem...
...into an enormously huge entire-town-in-total-chaos Princess-has-to-come-and-save-the-day problem.
Signed, your loyal subjects.
P.S. Obviously Spike did not have to learn a lesson, because he is the best, most awesome friend a pony could ask for. Unlike everypony else, he took things seriously, and- Eheh... uh... yeah... I'll just, um...
Ugh, come on, Twilight. We're gonna be late for the Nightmare Night festival. Huh? Are you that one kooky grandpa from Ponyville Retirement Village?
I'm Star Swirl the Bearded! Father of the amniomorphic spell? Did you even read that book I gave you about obscure unicorn history?
Nightmare Night! What a fright! Give us something sweet to bite!
Hi, everypony. Great costumes. Happy Nightmare Night, Granny Smith.
I should have been asleep five hours ago.
Pipsqueak the pirate, at your service. It's my very first Nightmare Night.
Since you moved here from Trottingham?
No, my very first Nightmare Night ever!
[chicken squawk] Enough chitchat! Time is candy!
Pinkie Pie, aren't you a little old for this?
Too old for free candy? [chicken squawk] Never.
[bell jingles] Do you like it?
Yeah! Great costume, Twilight! You make a fantastic weirdo clown!
A clown? Look at the borders on these robes. These are hoof-stitched!
It's a great costume! Huh! Grandpa!
Star Swirl the Bearded is only the most important conjurer of the pre-classical era.
Yeah! Whoo-hoo!
He created more than two hundred spells! He even has a shelf in the Canterlot library of magic named after him. Maybe I should start up a pony group to teach ponies about history. I bet everypony would love it! Don't you, Spike?
[chewing candy] Mm-hmm! [eating sounds] I love it!
Hey look, we're here already! Should we get something to eat?
Twilight, Twilight! Look at our haul! Ah! Can you believe it? And then, we went to Cheerilee's house, and got a bunch more goodies. Didn't we, Pip?
Sure did!
And then, we had to stop and wait for Granny Smith, and -–
Rainbow Dash, that wasn't very nice.
Lighten up, old-timer. This is the best night of the year for pranks!
Look what you did to Spike!
It's all in good fun. Oh! Oh! There's another group over there!
Happy Nightmare Night, Applejack!
Howdy, Spike! Hey, Twilight! Nice costume.
Thanks! I'm a dragon.
She means me, Spike.
With that beard, I reckon you're some sorta country music singer.
While y'all are here, ya' feel like bobbin' for an apple?
Thank you, everypony, and welcome to the Nightmare Night festival!
Spooky voice might work better if she wasn't dressed like that.
Follow me, and very soon, you'll hear the tale of Nightmare Moon.
Listen close, my little dears, I'll tell you where you got your fears of Nightmare Night, so dark and scary. [blows] Of Nightmare Moon, who makes you wary.
Every year, we put on a disguise, to save ourselves from her searching eyes.
But Nightmare Moon wants just one thing: to gobble up ponies in one quick swing!
Hungrily, she soars the sky. If she sees nopony, she passes by. So if she comes and all is clear, Equestria is safe another year!
Uh, Miss Zecora, if we wear costumes to hide from Nightmare Moon, so she won't gobble us up, how come we still need to give her some of our candy?
A perfect question, my little friend. For Nightmare Moon you must not offend. [blows] Fill up her belly with a treat or two, so she won't return to come eat you!
[screaming] Everypony! Just dump some candy and get out of here!
[gasp] It's Nightmare Moon! Run!
[awestruck] Princess Luna!
[booming voice] Citizens of Ponyville! We have graced your tiny village with our presence, so that you might behold the real Princess of the Night! A creature of nightmares no longer, but instead a pony who desires your love and admiration! Together we shall change this dreadful celebration into a bright and glorious feast!
Did you hear that, everypony? Nightmare Moon says she's gonna feast on us all!
[normal voice] What? No, children, no! You no longer have reason to fear us! Screams of delight is what your princess desires, not screams of terror! [stomps hoof] Madame Mayor, thy Princess of the Night hath arrived.
What is the matter with you? Very well, then. Be that way. We won't even bother with the traditional royal farewell.
I'm gonna go talk to her.
You can't talk to her! She's Nightmare Moon!
No, she's not. I saw the Elements of Harmony change her back to good. But it seems like she's having some trouble adjusting after being gone for a thousand years.
Princess Luna? Hi, my name is-
Star Swirl the Bearded. Commendable costume! Thou even got the bells right.
Thank you! Finally! Somepony who gets my costume! Uh, I just came to welcome you to our celebration! My actual name is-
Twilight Sparkle. [booming voice] It was thou who unleashed the powers of harmony upon us and took away our dark powers!
And that was a good thing, right?
[normal voice] But of course. We could not be happier. Is that not clear?
Well, you kinda sound like you're yelling at me.
But this is the traditional royal Canterlot voice! It is tradition to speak using the royal "we", and to use [booming voice] this much volume when addressing our subjects!
You know, that might explain why your appearance was met with... mixed results. I think if you just changed your approach a bit, you might be met with a warmer reception.
[booming voice] Change our approach?
Lower the volume?
[normal voice] Ohhh. We have been locked away for a thousand years. We are... not sure we can.
Go away! No candy here! Visitors not welcome on Nightmare Night!
[nervous laughing] Fluttershy, it's me, Twilight!
[nervous laughter] Wait right here.
Fluttershy... you remember Princess Luna?
[booming voice] Charmed.
[timidly] Likewise.
[booming voice] Twilight Sparkle hath spoken of the sweetness of thy voice. We ask thou teachest to us to speak as thou speakest.
[very quiet] Okay.
[booming voice] Shall our lessons begin?
[whisper] Okay.
[booming voice] Shall we mimic thy voice?
[quiet] Okay.
[booming voice] How is this?
[hurriedly] Perfect, lesson over!
A little quieter, princess.
[booming voice] How is... [loud voice] this?
Better. Right, Fluttershy?
[nervous, dazed laughter] Yes.
[loud voice] How... about... now?
Now you're getting it.
[normal voice] And... how about now?
Yes! Well done.
[booming voice] I thank thee, dear Fluttershy! Our normal speaking voice shall surely win us the hearts of thy fellow villagers.
Fluttershy! You've gotta hide us! Nightmare Moon is here and... [chicken squawk] Ah! She stole Fluttershy's voice so she can't scream when she gobbles her up!
[booming voice] Nay, children, wait! [normal voice] I mean... nay, children, no, wait.
Come on, princess. Time for plan B.
Hurray!
Aah!
It is of no use, Twilight Sparkle. They have never liked us and they never shall.
My friend Applejack is one of the most likable ponies around. I'm sure she'll have some ideas.
Heee...!
Uh... Applejack, the princess is looking for a little advice on how to fit in around here.
"Fit in"? Really?
I mean... that's easy! All you gotta do is have the right attitude. Loosen up a bit, be positive, play a few games, have some fun.
Fun? What is this "fun" thou speakest of? Pray tell, what purpose do these serve?
Try to land the sp-sp-spiders on the web.
You can do it, princess!
Ha! Your princess enjoys this "fun"! In what other ways may we experience it?
Fire away, princess!
Ha ha! The fun has been doubled!
Why don't you try bobbin' for apples? We got the best apples in Equestria here, princess.
I ask that thou call us... me... Luna, fair Applejack. Hear me, villagers! All of you! Call me Luna!
Show me to these bobbing apples.
Hey, gals. Anypony seen Pip? We lost him the last time we had to run– [chicken squawk] Aaah! Nightmare Moon is gobbling Pipsqueak! Everypony run!
Help! My backside has been gobbled!
'Tis a lie! Thy backside is whole and ungobbled, thou ungrateful whelp! [hoof stomp, thunder] Fair villagers, please do not back away. Let us join together in... fun!
Not enough fun for you? What say you to this?!
Huzzah! How many points do I receive?
Do not run away!
As your princess, we command you!
[deafening voice] Be still!
Princess, remember! Watch the screaming!
[booming voice] No, Twilight Sparkle! We must use the traditional royal Canterlot voice for what we are about to say. Since you choose to fear your princess rather than love her, and dishonor her with this insulting celebration, we decree that Nightmare Night shall be canceled! Forever!
[sigh] Shoot. We had everything goin' our way. Luna was happy, everypony in town was happy, now look at 'em.
[crying] But I wanted to be a zombie next year.
It's not over yet.
What are you gonna do?
I'm going to do what I do best. Lecture her!
Princess?
Leave me be, Twilight Sparkle.
Princess, I'm sorry it hasn't worked out how we wanted. But you have to believe me when I tell you that Nightmare Night is one of the most popular celebrations we have.
Yes. I can tell. By all the adoring shrieks of the children as they run away.
Princess...
No! No shrieking. No screaming or squealing either. Okay?
[muffled] Okay.
There's something I want you to see. And I promise that it's safe, but you really, really, really can't shriek. Do you promise not to shriek?
Pinkie Pie, you remember Princess Luna, right?
Ah. The ringleader of the frightened children. Hast thou come to make peace?
Rainbow!
She's changed, Pinkie! She's not evil or scary anymore! And she definitely doesn't want to gobble you up!
Well, duh.
Huh?
I know that. Sheesh, Twilight. I'm almost as big as her, how's she gonna gobble me up?
So why do you keep running away and screaming?
Sometimes it's just really fun to be scared!
Fun? Pinkie Pie, you're a genius!
Princess Luna! I've finally figured out why you're having so much trouble being liked!
[deadpan] Forgive me if I withhold my enthusiasm.
Come with me. I'll explain everything on the way.
Gosh. I never thought my very first Nightmare Night would be my very last.
Come, little Pip. Now don't you fret. Nightmare Night's not over yet. We still have candy left to give, so Nightmare Moon might let us live.
Yes. Come on, little ponies. What's Nightmare Night without the annual candy offering? You don't want Nightmare Moon to gobble you up, do you?
Aw, the rainbow wig just kills it for me.
Come on, kids! Doesn't that sound like fun?
Goodbye, Nightmare Night. Forever.
[booming voice] Citizens of Ponyville! You were wise to bring this candy to me. I am pleased with your offering. So pleased that I may just eat it... instead of eating you!
[spit] I am not certain that did what you meant for it to do, Twilight Sparkle.
Just wait.
For what? For... for them to scream some more?
Um... Princess Luna. I know there's not gonna be any more Nightmare Night, but do you suppose maybe you could come back next year and scare us again anyway?
Child. Art thou saying that thou... likest me to scare you?
It's really fun! Scary, but fun!
It... is?
Yeah! Nightmare Night is my favorite night of the year.
Well then. We shall have to bring [booming voice] Nightmare Night back!
Whoa! You're my favorite princess ever! [to foals] She said yes, guys!
YAY!
See? They really do like you, princess.
Can it be true? [thunder, booming voice] Oh, most wonderful of -- [normal voice] I mean... Oh, most wonderful of nights.
Dear Princess Celestia,
When you first sent me to Ponyville, I didn't know anything about friendship. I met somepony tonight who was having the same problem -- your sister, Princess Luna! She taught me that one of the best things you can do with friendship is to give it to others, and help them find it themselves! And I'm happy to report that all of Ponyville has learned that even if somepony seems a little intimidating, even scary, when you offer them your friendship, you'll discover a whole new pony underneath. And even if my Star Swirl the Bearded costume didn't go over, this still turned out to be the best Nightmare Night ever!
Rarity! Rrgh, you ruined the surprise! I was gonna serve you breakfast in bed!
Well! G'mornin', Rarity!
Father! Mother!
I'll have you know that Sweetie Belle here cooked this yummy lookin' breakfast all on her own.
I... figured. [sniffs] I didn't know you could burn juice.
I've been giving her lessons. I wouldn't be surprised if she's got a cutie mark in fancy cooking by the time we get back from our vacation.
Vacation? Is that this week? As in 'starting this very instant' this week?! Uurh. Let me guess: apple sauce?
Nope. Toast! We're gonna have the bestest time two sisters could ever have! I'm gonna go grab my stuff from Dad's wagon.
So, now, when you say 'a week'... is that, um, seven whole days?
And six nights, I know! Such a short time to spend with your little sis.
You gonna eat that?
But I've got such a long to-do list. Oh well, I suppose 'spend time with your sister' will just have to be added to the list.
Just a few necessities.
Now, let's get that kitchen all cleaned up.
Cleaned up? But we haven't even eaten yet.
Well now, Sweetie Belle, I appreciate the gesture, but we simply can't eat this breakfast; it's burnt.
It's not that burnt.
Never fear, my dear, I'll get a proper breakfast going.
Can I help?
Oh, er, of course, er, in one moment, Sweetie Belle. Let me just get things started.
Rarity! I thought you said I was gonna help!
You are! You... can... put the garnish on the plates.
You mean this parsley?
Okay, now, easy! It has to be just right! No need to rush. No! That's too slow. Careful! Back up! Looking for perfection here...
Whoa, whoa!
Not... bad.
[gasp] There are some things I must attend to. Can you take the dirty towels to the laundry room?
No problem, I'll make myself useful!
Sweetie Belle!
I told you I'd make myself useful. Surprised?
Am I? You washed my incredibly expensive one-of-a-kind designer crocheted wool sweater! Do you know how hard these things are to come by?
What's the big deal?
The big deal is that in the heat of the sun, wool... shrinks.
Oh. Sorry.
Nng... Well. Back to work. I must create.
Sorry?
Huh. Stay out of trouble, okay? Please?
I just wanted to do something nice for my sister.
Raargh, I'm so bored! When is Rarity gonna finish her work?
[in Sweetie Belle's mind] Stay out of trouble, okay?
I never got in trouble for drawing. Hmm. This needs something...
Hi, Rarity! I made a special drawing for y–
[screams] Oh no! Did you use these gems?!
Well, yes, but I know you'll have more in your work room...
But, but these are extremely rare baby blue sapphires! I need them for an outfit for an extremely important client!
Oh. Sorry.
[sigh] Sweetie Belle, what am I going to do with you?
Oh! We could paint together, we could ride bikes, play chess, sing a song, catch frogs, pillow fight–
That's not what I meant!
Oh.
Now I have to go and find some more of these gems!
I'll go with you and help!
No! No thank you. You can help by picking up these papers and stacking them, neatly. Put the pens and pencils back exactly where you found them, and please find something to do that doesn't create a large mess for me to clean up!
Geez Louise, can't I do anything right?
Surprise!
My- ee- bleh- My inspiration room! What did you do? What did you do?!
When I saw the big mess in your room, I thought I'd clean it up for you.
This wasn't a mess! It was organized chaos! I was just about finished planning my new fashion line, and, and you, you, you went and, and you– and you put everything away!
But every time I make a mess, you get upset!
But this was my mess in my house! And now I have to start from scratch!
But, I thought it would make you happy!
Happy?! Happy?! I– [grinds teeth] I just need some time alone. Hm!
How's the sleepover at Rarity's goin'?
[mimicking Rarity] Why, it's smashing!
Huh?
I just wish we could do something special together that didn't include me goofing anything up.
The Sisterhooves Social! Applejack an' I do it every year! You an' Rarity can compete against other sister teams in all these neat events!
That sounds like the perfect way for us to hang out! Rarity will think it's an excellent idea.
What a ridiculous idea. A contest at Sweet Apple Acres? It doesn't sound... very... clean.
So, what, now you're back to hating messes?
Sweetie Belle, watch your tone! I am still your big sister.
Right! And any sister who cares about her sister goes!
Sweetie Belle...! Honestly! Playing silly little games in the dirt is just... uncouth! With or without a sister.
Well then! Maybe, maybe I'll try the Sisterhooves Social without a sister! In fact, I think I'll try the rest of my life without a sister!
[gasp] Oh, I'm the one who's ruining your life?! Really?! Have you looked around this place? I'm the one who'd be better off with no sister!
Well it looks like we finally agree on something! Neither of us needs a sister!
Deal!
Deal! Goodbye, un-sister!
Hmph!
'Uncouth'? She said the Sisterhooves Social was 'uncouth'?
Yeah! Uncouth? [belch] Wait. What's uncouth?
It's not just the Social. She thinks I'm uncouth.
Honey, Rarity thinks everything's uncouth.
[with mouth full] What's uncouth?
It means uncivil. Y'know, bad mannered?
Exactly. Sweetie Belle, just give Rarity some time. She'll come around. Sisters always do.
Not sisters like Rarity.
Come on, now. Apple Bloom and I got some chores to finish up on. Maybe you can help!
You sure you want me to help? I just mess everything up!
Oh, come on, that's just stinkin' thinkin'. Watch!
Good catch there, Apple Bloom! Whoo!
This is a chore?
Since we can't sell the bruised apples, we gotta collect them all for the pigs to eat.
It's a lot of work, so we make a game of it. Wanna try?
Um, okay. Ow! You're right, it is hard work.
That's why we do it...
Together!
Huh, Rarity never wants to do chores together.
Ugh, all that work ruined, thanks to Sweetie Belle. Oh my. It's usually a big mess in here. [gasp] Id-ee-a! This is genius! I shall call it 'full spectrum fashions'! If Sweetie Belle hadn't– [clears throat] Well, no matter. She still shouldn't have touched my things without permission. Hm!
Apple Bloom! You're up!
You're... making... grape juice? Rarity would call the fashion police on me if I got grape juice anywhere near her precious outfits.
Well, that's silly!
Apple Bloom...
Please, Applejack, she didn't mean–
How d'you like them grapes, y'little whippersnapper!
Now to get these fabrics washed for my fabulous new line. Ooh, my favorite sweater... I just can't believe that Sweetie Belle.
Oh, Opal-wopal! It's as if Sweetie Belle knew the sweater was perfect for you. And Sweetie Belle should consider herself perfectly lucky that this thoughtless mishap turned out all right. Hm.
Apple Bloom!
Got it, sis!
Wow. It's as if they were just one pony.
Yee-haw!
Way to corral some critters, sis!
You coulda just a-a-a-asked.
Rarity never high-hoofs me.
Perfect! Just one more, and this ensemble is fini! Rrgh, Sweetie Belle! Where's her silly little arts and crafts project?
Oh, Sweetie Belle! My one and only sister! What have I done? All the time I could have spent with you was wasted complaining and wishing you were gone! [crying dramatically] Woe is me! No! I must get her back! I must! As Celestia is my witness, I shall never be sisterless again!
[gasp] Sweetie Belle! Oh, I have been galloping all over looking for you. I–
Oh hello, un-sister. What are you doing here? Better be careful, you might get some dust on you.
Oh, Sweetie Belle, I want to apologize. I am not better off without a sister.
I'm not better off without a sister either. Spending the day with Applejack and Apple Bloom made me realize that.
Oh, Sweetie, you don't know how happy I am to hear–
And that's why I'm adopting Applejack as my big sister!
What?!
What?!
What?!
A sister is someone who loves and takes care of another sister. Applejack's a real sister.
H-Hold on, Sweetie Belle. Don't get ahead of yourself here.
Besides, she's my big sister!
Yeah, um–
[to Rarity] Or maybe she should be your sister, so she could teach you what a good sister is supposed to be!
Heh, um, actually, I–
But I don't need lessons on being a good sister, I-I promise! Listen! I'll show you how to cook my favorite quiche! Or, or, I'll show you the proper way to beautify your mane. Won't that be fun? Hm?
Hm! You want me to go home with you, so we can do what you wanna do?
Uh... yes?
Just forget it!
We're still sisters, right?
Well, that apology went swimmingly. Applejack, why do you have to be so good and make me look so bad?
[chuckles] Oh Rarity, once again you're thinkin' about yourself. Bein' sisters is a give and take. You've been doin' a whole lotta takin', but you haven't been doin' a whole lotta givin'.
But of course I give. I give lessons. Reasonable demands.
But ya never give in. Bein' sisters is like... apple pie. You can have amazin' apples, and you can have a wonderfully crispy crust, but only together you can have a perfect apple pie.
But apart, all we are is just a pile of mush and some crumbly dry mess... [gasp] I know what I need to do! I just hope it isn't too late!
Well, I guess it's a good thing Rarity isn't here. Do I see 'uncouth' written all over this contest?
Look at the size of that pig!
He sure is a cutie.
That's the last word Rarity would use. [mimicking Rarity] Oh my, what a repulsive monstrosity! This thing needs a head to toe makeover!
It's almost time!
Well, you two have fun. Sure wish I had a sister to run the race with. Huh?
You do now!
AB and I figured since we do this every year...
I'd let you borrow my sis so you can give it a try!
Sister for a day.
No way!
One. Day. One. Day.
Is this thing on? [to Big McIntosh] I don't think this thing is on. [to the megaphone] Hello! [Big McIntosh whispers into her ear] What is the- e- oh. You have to say so. Confangled modern doohickeys. Now, the event you've all been waiting fer! The Sister Soci- The Socialhooves- Oh, dabnabbit, you know, the big race! We have five teams this year fer the event! So y'all head on up to the finish line, y'hear? [Big McIntosh whispers into her ear] [to Big McIntosh] Eh? [to the megaphone] The start line! [to Big McIntosh] That's what I said.
That's us.
One. Day. Good luck!
And may the best sisters win! On your marks... get set... Gooooo!
You okay, Applejack?
Applejack, help!
You can do it, sister!
Ooh, so close! You almost won!
Thank you, Applejack! You were amazing! I don't even care that we didn't win. This was so much fun! Huh? Rarity?! Wait, where's Applejack?
I don't get it.
[chuckles] We switched places over at the very first mudhole.
So, we did the whole competition... together?
That we did, little sister. Well, except for the start line.
But you finished together!
You mean... you were all in on it?
Applejack, Mm-hmm.
You did this for me?
Us. I did it for us. You see? We are apple pie!
Huh?
Uh, I'll explain later. For now, I think we deserve a celebration!
Applejack, Yeah!
Where?
The spa, of course.
Oh, Rarity.
No, I-I-I'm serious.
Very well then, what should we write to the Princess?
I'll start. Having a sister is just about the bestest thing in the world. But it sure isn't the easiest.
I agree that being sisters is a wonderful thing, but it takes teamwork. Sometimes it's about compromising. Sometimes it's about accepting each others' differences. But mostly, it's about having fun together. Even if it means getting your hooves a little bit dirty.
A lot dirty.
A little bit dirty.
A lot dirty.
A little bit dirty!
A lo–
Hold it, hold it! How about "a medium amount of dirty, not too little, not too much, just right"?
Deal!
Today's the day, Cutie Mark Crusaders! I can just feel it! Today's the day we are all gonna get our cutie marks in... bowlin'!
Whoo-hoo!
[muffled] Whooo! [spits out bag] I mean, yaay!
Why, after today, we won't even be the Cutie Mark Crusaders anymore! We'll be the... the Three Strikes!
That makes us sound like we've struck out.
Mmm. How 'bout the Pin Twins?
But there are three of us.
Okay then... Um... the Bowlin' Dolls!
The Bowling Dolls! That's it!
Perfect!
All righty then! Let's bowl 'em over!
Phpoo!
Cool! A bowling cutie mark!
I did it! I did it! Blank?
But... but... what about my ball?
That bowling sure was fun, even if all I got was gutter balls.
Yeah, at least you were able to keep your ball in your lane. I don't think Mr. Kingpin is ever gonna let me play again! Hey, maybe I could get my cutie mark in demolition!
Aw, come on, Apple Bloom.
I know just what you need to put the bloom back on your apple.
A treat from Sugarcube Corner will cheer you up.
No, it won't.
A party will cheer you up!
No, it won't.
A lovely new chapeau will cheer you up.
No, it won't.
Come on, Apple Bloom, it's just a cutie mark!
Or lack of a cutie mark!
Shh! That's not helping! Apple Bloom! Where are you going?! Apple Bloom, come back!
Whoa! Ah! Ooh! Ow! Nnnn...
Well, who is it that we have here? Why, it's Apple Bloom, my dear!
Ow...
What has happened to you, youth? Ah, you've gone and chipped your tooth. Come with me, I have just the trick that will fix you up quite quick.
[with a lisp] I've tried everything, Zecora, and still no cutie mark! Well, I'm gonna be as old as Granny Smith and still have a blank flank!
Your frustration is well understood, but one must be patient for all things good.
[with a lisp] Ugh, I've heard that from every pony I know! And now from every zebra I know! I'm just too impatient to be patient. I just want my cutie mark and I want it now!
For your cutie mark, you will have to wait. We must fix that tooth before it's too late. Now drink down every little drop, and this mixture will mend that chip on top!
[glug, glug] Oh my star apples, you did it, Zecora! Golly, you have tonics that heal all sorts of ailments. Bad bones, bad back, bad breath...
Yes little one, it is true, I have many a healing brew.
And not only stuff that fixes the bad, but stuff that brings the good! Good health, good hair... good heavens! Hmm... I bet you can mix up a brew to fix... anything.
There are many mixtures in this room, but none for what you want, dear Apple Bloom. A magic potion does not hold the key. For a cutie mark, time is the only remedy.
Fine. Whatcha got goin' on there?
I am brewing up another mix for a rooster and his chicks. [muffled] It seems the rooster has lost his crow, [normal] making mornings very slow.
Hey, I've seen that flower bloomin' in Ponyville! What is it?
It is one we call 'Heart's Desire'. A dash will ignite the rooster's fire. With Heart's Desire, his talent comes into view, and he'll give a mighty cock-a-doodle-doo!
Zowie! Heart's Desire, huh?
Ay me, but what is this? I have run out of amethyst. I must go get this purple flower for my brew to have full power!
Yeah, you go, you go.
I'm so hungry.
Yeah, I can't wai--
Aah! Apple Bloom! You got your cutie mark!
Um, Apple Bloom... what is it?
Yeah! Is it an 'o'? Is your talent spelling?
Or is it a ring? Are you a jewelry maker?
Or is it a powdered donut? 'Cause that sounds delicious.
No, it's a loop-de-hoop!
[gasp] A what now?
A loop-de-hoop! 'Least, that's what I always called it. Applejack made it for me from an old rain barrel when I was littler! Who woulda thought that loop-de-hoop would end up bein' my special talent?
Wow, Apple Bloom, that's amazing!
That's it? That's your talent?
Spinning a hoop around your waist? Puh-lease.
Oh, you ain't seen nothin' yet.
Apple Bloom, you're super-duper-loop-de-hooper!
Thanks, everypony!
All right, my little ponies, time for class!
Apple Bloom?
Yes, Miss Cheerilee?
I want you to take your loop-de-hoop into the yard... and give us all a lesson in your amazing loop-de-hooping!
Don't worry, gals. Keep at it and you might get to be half as good as me!
Grr...
Great job, girls!
You're too kind, Apple Bloom.
Yeah, we stink.
Nah, you just need a little practice. Soon you'll be able to... hoop and bop! Hoop and hop! [muffled] Hoop and skip! [normal] And hoop and flip!
[laughs] Show us some more, Apple Bloom.
Well, all right, just a few more tricks. But be warned! These are advanced moves, not for beginners. Got that, Diamond Tiara?
I call this one the hoop-la! [makes helicopter noises] Huh? Oof!
Another cutie mark? Hah! I guess that last trick was a lot of hoopla. Those cutie marks are fake!
What? No they're not!
Miss Cheerilee, have you ever heard of a pony with two cutie marks?
I must say that I never have, but maybe Apple Bloom has two special talents!
Oh yeah? Then let's see you do that!
Spin plates!
Yeah!
Two cutie marks?
Two talents?
Aw yeah!
Our friend is the most...
...special pony ever!
Alright, everypony, You ready for a real show?
Yee-haw, little sis! Congratulations on gettin' not just one, but two cutie marks! We're mighty proud of you, right, Big McIntosh?
Eeyup.
I've never seen anythin' like it. Have you, Big Mac?
Nnnope.
Why, the way you were a-hoopin' and a-hoppin' and kickin' and spinnin' reminded me of when I was a spry young filly. Guh, charley horse, charley horse! Ooh, that's better.
Why, Apple Bloom, I think you're ready to hit the rodeo circuit right now!
Actually, I'm ready to hit the hay right now. I'm plum tuckered. I'll see y'all in the mornin'. Night!
Night! Oh my, little Apple Bloom has finally blossomed, hasn't she, Big Mac?
Eeyup!
[grunting] What in tarnation is that? Apple Bloom, what is all that awful... tapping? [gasp] Three cutie marks?!
Help me!
Help me!
C'mere, you! Ow! Ow! Whoa!
I'm sorry, Applejack! I dunno how to make it stop!
Well, I know somepony who might!
Three cutie marks. Three talents. I've never seen anything like it! I was just reading something about unusual equine illnesses. What was it?
"Perplexing Pony Plagues", perhaps?
Yes, Spike, you're amazing!
Yes, well, I do have some talents.
Hay fever... the trots... [gasp] Cutie pox!
Apple Bloom, Cutie pox?!
Cutie pox. This puzzling pony plague afflicted a population of ponies back in the Paleopony Period!
Heh, say that ten times fast!
Random cutie marks appeared all over the ponies' bodies, causing them to perform all the talents that came with them!
Just like me!
Yes, but what's the cure? What's the cure?!
It says here there's no known cure!
Apple Bloom, No known cure?!
The cause of the breakout was never discovered, and the cutie pox disappears as mysteriously as they arrived!
Oh, no! Sacré bleu! Plus de marques de cutie! [gasp] Qu'est-ce c'est?! Je parle Français?!
My sister's speakin' in fancy!
She needs help!
I know she needs help! We can't just wait for this to go away! We gotta find somepony to mix up a cure! And fast!
Tout de suite!
Not some pony... some zebra!
Zecora!
Hurry, hurry!
Dépêchez-vous!
She's cursed!
Hexed!
Enchanted!
No, she's not.
She just has some weird mysterious disease with no known cure called cutie pox.
 She's got the cutie pox!
I thought I had removed their fear the last time that I visited here. But doors are barred and shutters shut. Guess I should've stayed inside my hut.
Zecora! Apple Bloom has cutie pox! We were just on our way to see if you had a cure!
But magically you're here! Was your zebra sense a-tinglin'?
My 'zebra sense' did not bring me round, it was a special flower that I needed found. I thought I picked enough to fix all the potions I had to mix, but after my visit from Apple Bloom, some had mysteriously left my room. Apple Bloom! What do you say? Did this flower just walk away?
I, um...
A cutie pox cure I have forsooth, for healing power is in the Seeds of Truth.
Well, well then give 'em to her! Quick!
These seeds must be planted in the ground. With the truth, they'll grow, and the cure is found.
Come again?
The Seeds of Truth do hold the cure, but one must speak words, true and pure.
Well then let's get to it! Alright, they're planted, now somepony tell the truth!
Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa!
Somepony! Anypony!
Yesterday I told Mrs. Cake that I ate two corn cakes, but I really ate three! Okay, six! I ate six corn cakes! [cries] Make it stop! Oh, make it stop!
Wah, I can't stand it any more! It's me! I admit it! I didn't earn my cutie mark! They're all fake! I figured the Heart's Desire would help me get what I wanted most! So when Zecora left her hut, I mixed up a special potion and put the rest of the Heart's Desire in it!
[chomps, chews and swallows] Ahh.
Apple Bloom!
Are you okay?
I'm great, and I've never been happier to be a blank flank. But I'm awful sorry I lied, 'specially to you gals. I was so desperate for my cutie mark, I just got carried away. And I'm really sorry I snuck those flowers from you, Zecora. Why, I wouldn't blame you if you never wanted me to come by again.
Now, Apple Bloom, do not be silly. You are always welcome, my little filly. With each mistake you learn something new, growing up into a better you.
Apple Bloom, would you mind writing to Princess Celestia and telling her what you've learned?
I'd be happy to, Twilight! Spike?
Ready!
Dear Princess Celestia,
Waiting for what your heart desires can be really hard. So, you may try to take a shortcut. But this dishonesty never works, because you didn't earn what your heart desired. The only cure is being honest with yourself and others. And that's something every heart desires.
I sure am proud of you, sis. Seems like you finally learned the importance of patience.
Yup! All good things come to those who wait. Well! I've waited long enough.
Actually, that was way too long.
What?!
So what are we gonna do today to earn our cutie marks?
Well, I was thinking, for a pony who's never mixed up a potion before, you sure stirred up something fierce.
Yeah! So what if your talent is potion making?
Oh my gosh, totally! Let's go talk to Zecora, now!
Yeah!
Woo-hoo!
Ha-ha! Whoo-hoo! Yeah! [laughs] Whoa!
Winona? I mean... Winona's head?! Um, is this weird, or is it just me? Angel? Gummy?! Okay, this is officially beyond weird now and right on down to freaky town.
[gasp] Yaaaaah!
Whaa!
Phew.
Let's get this thing started!
Sincerest apologies, Rainbow, if our pets were bothering you.
Say you're sorry, Opal.
She's... sorry.
What are you all doing out here?
Why, we always round up our critters for a regular ol' Pony Pet Playdate in this park.
Uh, you do?
Same time every week.
I thought you knew. You didn't know? She didn't know?
Well, we had initially planned on inviting Rainbow, of course, except–
We were totally gonna invite you, Rainbow, then Twilight remembered that you don't even have a pet, and Rarity remembered that you really like to take naps in the afternoon, so Applejack figured you wouldn't be missing out on anything anyway, and Fluttershy and I nodded our heads in agreement like this.
Oh, please don't be mad at us.
Oh, I'm not mad. You all are right. Not much point of a Pony Pet Playdate for me if I'm a pony without a pet, right?
Eeexactly. So, if'n you'll excuse us...
Hey, now wait a minute! Just because I don't have a pet now doesn't mean I never want a pet!
Ohh! Y, y, Oh, really? You really want a pet? Really? 'Cause I've got so many wonderful choices at my house! Oh, and I know you'll just love them! And they'll love you! Oh, and you'll be best friends forever and ever! Oh!
Now, Rainbow, my dear, I cannot express my delight It's abundantly clear That somewhere out here Is the pet that will suit you just right
I can't wait to get started, but first let me set a few rules It's of utmost importance The pet that I get Is something that's awesome and cool
Awesome, cool, got it! I have so many wonderful choices, just wait, you will see
I need something real fast like a bullet to keep up with me
Sure! How 'bout a bunny? They're cutesy and wootsie and quick as can be
Cutesy? Wootsie? Have you even met me?
Rainbow, have faith You see, I will bet you Somewhere in here is the pet that will get you
Come on, the sky's the limit!
Sky is good. I'd like it to fly.
Really? Because I think this widdle puddy tat has your name written all over it. Yes, he does. Aww, look, he likes you!
Pass.
I have so many wonderful choices for you to decide There are otters and seals With massive appeal
Otters and seals do not fly.
Maybe not, but I've seen this particular seal catch ten feet of air when he breaches the water!
That's it. I'm outta here.
Wait! There must be a pet here That will fit the ticket How 'bout a ladybug, or a cute cricket?
Bigger. And cooler.
Bigger, cooler. Right.
I've got just the thing in that tree, Dash Meet your new fabulous pet, Squirrely!
It's just a squirrel.
Not just any squirrel. A flying squirrel!
...Yeah. So, like I was saying...
Fluttershy, pal, this won't cut it I need a pet to keep up with me Something awesome, something flying With coolness that defies gravity!
I'm sensing you want an animal that can fly.
Ya think?
I have plenty of wonderful creatures who soar in the sky Like a sweet hummingbird or a giant monarch butterfly
Better, but cooler.
I see. How 'bout an owl, or a wasp, or a toucan? There's so many wonderful creatures the likes of that There are falcons and eagles They are both quite regal Or perhaps what you need is a dark and mysterious bat?
Now you're talking! But instead of just one standout, now that's too many.
So many choices, and such riches aplenty
Not a bad problem to have, if you ask me.
The bat would be awesome, but the wasp I'm digging too Do you have something in a yellow striped bat?
No.
I've got a hot pink flamingo, just dying to meet you
What to do, what to do? [gasp] A prize! That's it! There's really just one way To find out which animal's best Hold a contest of speed, agility, and guts That will put each pet to the test
Don't forget style, that should be considered
Then we'll know for sure who's best of the litter
The one who is awesome as cool
Just like me Can't settle for less, 'cause I'm the best
So a contest we will see
Who's the number one, greatest, perfectest pet
In the world for me!
May the games
Begin!
And may the best pet win!
[blows whistle] Shh! [to assembled animals] So! You all think you've got what it takes to be my pet, do ya? Well, we'll just see about that! If any of you don't think you can handle it, bow out now before you humiliate yourself in front of your peers. This competition isn't for the weak. You'd better be prepared to step up your game! You call that flapping?! That's better. There's only room on Team Dash for one of you, and my future pet needs to be able to take it to the extreme! Any questions?
I got one. Does she understand what a pet really needs?
Yeah, like care and attention, love and affection– Ugh! And breath mints!
Now, you just pay attention, and try your best, and–
Seriously, Fluttershy! The turtle? What did you bring that thing here for?
Technically he's a tortoise, and he's always dreamed of being somepony's pet. He just wants a chance to compete, he won't get in the way. You won't even know he's here.
No.
Oh, just let him try.
Ugh, but there's no way he can possibly keep up. Look at him!
It won't hurt to let him try.
But–
Just let him try?
Grrgh, ugh, fine! But don't say I didn't warn you! This isn't a game, you know! Alright, now these games will determine which one of you has the most important qualities I'm looking for in a pet. Speed. Agility. Guts. Style. Coolness. Awesomeness. And radicalness.
Aren't those all the same thing?
You would think that, Twilight. And that's why you would never qualify to be my pet.
Speed! On your marks...
Get set... [blows whistle] Sorta speedy... not speedy... pretty speedy... could be more speedy...
Yeah! That's speed!
[to the tortoise] Tsk-tsk. That's just sad.
Agility! Sorta agile... not agile... pretty agile... could be more agile... [to the tortoise] Wanna know the opposite of agility? That.
Yeah, baby, now that's what I call agility! [sing-song voice] Don't leave me hangin'! I'm gonna have to shave a point off your score for that.
Okay! Which of you has the guts to try and get Opal's favorite toy away from her?
Now that takes guts!
Style! Any pet of mine's gotta look good, 'cause you gotta make me look good!
Coolness!
Sorta cool.
Not cool.
Pretty cool.
Could be cooler.
Not what I had in mind. I can't hear you!
Eugh.
Now that's a cool sound!
[to bat] Sorta awesome. [to toucan] Not awesome. [to flamingo] Could be more awesome. [to owl] Ho ho ho, yeah, that is awesome! [to tortoise] Uh, you did that already. That's pretty much all you can do, huh?
Whoa! That was truly awesome! But I'm afraid this is the radicalness competition, so I'm gonna have to take some points off.
[sigh] Listen, turtle...
Tortoise.
Whatever! You've had your fun, but I think you and I both know who made the cut and who didn't.
You didn't.
I mean... 'A' for effort and everything, you gave it your best shot, maybe I've got a gold star sticker around here somewhere you can have, but, seriously, go home. You're starting to creep me out. So, anyway, you're all outstanding competitors, but there can only be one of you who's number one. So the final tie-breaking contest is going to be... pause for dramatic effect... a race against... me! Through Ghastly Gorge! Dun dun dun!
Gesundheit.
Actually, Ghastly Gorge isn't scary. It's fun. Heh. I've flown through it a million times myself, so obviously I'll be at the front of the pack. But whichever of you make it across the finish line with me will have proven you can keep up with me, and will have earned the honor and glory of getting to be my pet! Ready? Setgo!
Woo-hoo! Haha! Try to keep up!
Can't catch me, ha-ha!
C'mon, slowpokes! You wanna win, don't ya?
Oh! I forgot to tell you! Watch out for the Quarray eels! They don't like it when you get too close to their nests, like this. Whoa.
Easy, peasy, one-two-threesy! Right, guys?
AVALANCHE! Hey! Whoaaaa!
C'mon... No! Wait! Come back! Don't leave me! I'm the one who's supposed to win! I don't wanna end up stuck here... forever! Oh no, nonono, th-this can't be happening. Forever is way too long to be trapped in Ghastly Gorge. I mean, it's like, forever! Somepony! Anypony! Help me!
Wahoo! My prayers have been answered! Oh, thankyouthankyoutha– You?! Oh no! Now I'm not only going to be stuck here forever, I'm gonna be stuck here forever with the most annoying turtle in the world! Gyh, I'm doomed. DOOMED, I tell you!
Hm, something's not right here.
Where's Rainbow Dash?
Great galloping galoshes! There's been an avalanche in there!
Rainbow!
Wait! Look!
It's the turtle!
Applejack, Pinkie Pie, Tortoise!
Oh, whatever...
And he's carrying something on his back...
Ahh! It's Rainbow Dash! It's her! It's Rainbow!
Maybe we'd better go meet him halfway.
Huh. Way to go, little guy!
Oh, thank goodness you're not hurt, Rainbow!
Just my pride.
It sure was, if'n it means Rainbow gets to have her own little critter just like the rest of us from now on.
Uh... thanks. What you did... I owe you one.
Rainbow! Your new pet is over here waiting for you!
Oh... Right... Yeah... That.
What's the matter?
You got your perfect pet, right?
The best of the best like you wanted, remember? It can fly and it's not a squirrel! Should we sing about it again?
A falcon sure looks good on ya, Rainbow.
Yay?
But I said whoever crosses the finish line with me gets to be my pet.
You did! You did say that! She did say that, that was the rule!
And the only racer who crossed the finish line with me was the one who stopped to save me when I needed help. The tortoise!
But what about the–
Wouldja look at that? He even smiles slow.
Spike, take a letter. Dear Princess Celestia,
I used to think that the most important traits to look for in a pet, or any best friend, were all physical competitive abilities. But now I can see how short-sighted and shallow that was.
Today I learned what the most important quality really is. A certain kind of spirit. A stick-to-it-ive-ness. A never give up, can-do attitude that's the mark of a real winner. And this tortoise has it.
Tenacity.
Gesundheit. You just can't stop that little guy. He's like a... like a... Tank!
But Rainbow! You didn't want a pet that couldn't fly because it would keep you grounded and hold you back, remember?
Hmm...
Heh. C'mon, Tank! We're gonna be late for our very first Pony Pet Playdate!
Attention, everypony! Attention! The official Rainbow Dash Fan Club will come to order. Let's get right down to our first order of business. I motion that Rainbow Dash be declared the most awesome pony in Ponyville.
I second the motion, and might I add that if you looked up the word 'awesome' in the dictionary, there would be a picture of Rainbow Dash.
I object!
I think the word 'awesome' is played out! Rainbow Dash deserves better! I motion that we declare her the most stupendous pony!
'Stupendous'? Is that the best you've got? I motion that we declare her... wonderiffic!
Astonishing!
Breathtaking!
Astounding!
Bedazzling!
What about super-ultra-extreme-awesomazing?
All in favor of declaring Rainbow Dash the most 'super-ultra-extra-uh-whatever you said' pony in all of Ponyville, say 'aye'!
[sigh] What a beautiful day. There's nothing like a dip in the clouds to make a Pegasus feel super relaxed.
Help! Help! Help! Help!
Looks like my sky swim will have to wait! I'm Rainbow Dash, and I'm here to rescue you!
Wow. What's with this crowd? Uh, thanks, everypony. It was really no big deal.
To me it was! You're my hero, Rainbow Dash!
That Rainbow Dash sure is something.
Something special.
[gasps] Oh no! There's something wrong with the baby!
She's not cheering for everypony's favorite hero, Rainbow Dash!
There just aren't enough words in the dictionary to describe Rainbow Dash's awesomeness.
I can think of a few new words.
And I bet 'modest' is not one of them.
No, but she is kinda awesome.
Never fear, your friendly neighborhood Rainbow Dash is here!
We'd be lost without you!
You're our hero, Rainbow Dash!
Rainbow Dash! Rainbow Dash!
I can't hear you!
Rainbow Dash! Rainbow Dash! Rainbow Dash! Rainbow Dash! Rainbow Dash! Rainbow Dash! Rainbow Dash!
Call me silly, but I think this whole hero thing might be going to Rainbow Dash's head.
You may be right...silly.
And then I zoomed into the well. I knew it would be dark and dangerous, but I didn't let that stop me. Danger's my middle name. Rainbow 'Danger' Dash. Thinking back on it, I acted pretty awesomely heroic that day.
That day.
Awesomely heroic that day and awesomely arrogant ever since.
Mm-hm.
Hey, Applejack. How'd you like to be immortalized as my friend?
Immorta-what?
Are you taking notes?
Yup! I've been hoof-picked by Rainbow Dash herself, to write her autobiography!
Umm, autobiographies are supposed to be written by the pony they are about.
Maybe for your normal, run-of-the-mill ponies. But I'm far too busy saving lives to stop and write. That's why I hired Spike as my ghost writer.
[yelps] Spike's a ghost!
...Anyway. Spike here writes down everything I say. Don't you, Spike?
Don't... you... Spike. Got it!
This way, I can stay focused on performing those acts of bravery that nopony else has the guts to perform. Yep, it takes guts. But it also takes brains. And sometimes a big lunch and a nap. Being a hero is surely not for everypony, but I'm up to the challenge.
[grunts] There you go.
"Lemon Daze": Someday, I wanna be just like you!
Aim high, kid, but don't aim for the impossible.
Help! Help!
Uh, don't you think you should go and help?
[muffled] Yeah, yeah. I've got a good ten seconds to spare. Just a couple more.
The tension is unbearable. Will Rainbow Dash make it on time?
Holy turnips, that pony came outta nowhere!
I've never seen such bravery in all my life!
That's right! Ponyville has a new hero. A mysterious mare that has done well by our fair city today. I dub this new masked hero 'The Mysterious Mare Do Well'!
Mare Do Well, huh? Well that mare would do well to stay outta my way! Ponyville's only got room for one hero, and that hero is me!
[clears throat] Never fear, your friendly neighborhood Rainbow–
Excuse me, uh, do you think you could skip your catchphrase and just hurry up and save us?!
Ugh, fine! Picky, picky. Whoaaaa! Aah!
"Wisp": Oh, thank you, Mare Do We– e...
I can't believe it. Mare Do Well is stronger than me? Well, a hero is more than just muscle, and she's gonna learn that the hard way.
Huh?
Huh? Never fear, your friendly neighbor– Whoa!
Never fear– Uh! I'm coming! Hold on! Whoa!
Look!
"Jim Beam": Look out for the– Watch out for falling– On your left! Agh! Your other left!
Here ya go, safe and sound.
Well, Mare Do Well, or should I call you Mare Do Slow? You're gonna have to pick up the pace if you wanna compete with me, 'cause I move like lightning.
"Rivet": Actually, she saved all of us! We owe her our lives!
[growls] Okay. She's strong, fast, and somehow knows what's gonna happen ahead of time. I've gotta step up my game.
[gasps] If the dam breaks, the whole town will be flooded! Looks like Ponyville needs a hero! Easy peasy.
My game is officially back on. If only somepony were here to pat me on the back. Eh, guess I'll have do it myself– [yelps] [screams] Help! [spits] Help! You?! I suppose you want me to thank– You gotta be kidding me...
Lemme get this straight. She's strong, she's agile, and she's magic? Ughhh! How do I compete with that? Wait a minute. I do have a leg up on her. And that leg is... wings! Hah! Take that, Mare Do Well!
Oh, for the love of Pete.
Gotta hand it to the girl, that Mare Do Well sure can pull off some pretty heroic feats.
I must say, I was impressed by that spell she used to fix the dam. Seems like something like that would take quite a bit of study.
She really cares about everypony's safety.
Have you seen her costume? It is to die for! If you ask me she's a hero of fashion.
And she's modest and humble. She lets her actions speak for themselves. Gotta admire that.
I don't have to admire that! I don't think she's all that great!
She's... great.
I didn't say that.
Sounds like somepony's jealous.
Who, me?
Rainbow Dash is jealous.
Don't write that, Spike!
Correction: Rainbow Dash is very jealous.
Fine! Laugh all you want, but I'll be the one laughing when I prove to you all that I'm just as good– no, that I'm a better hero than Mare Do Well!
Huh, no sign of trouble here. Darn it.
Buses and baby carriages are always careening down this hill. Where is an out-of-control vehicle when you need one?!
Rrgh, there are absolutely no freak natural disasters going on anywhere! How am I supposed to prove myself when everything's so normal and safe? [gasps] Hold it right there, Granny Smith! You don't have to pretend with me. I can see that you're in way over your head here.
Eh, what's that?
You're putting on a brave face, I get it. But you don't have to anymore. I'll help you cross the street!
[grunting] Actually, I can cross the street just fine!
Don't worry! You're in extremely... capable... hooves!
[panicked grunts] Back off!
[pants] Here we are! Safe and sound. A good and heroic citizen deserves a little recognition, don't you think?
[gasps] Somepony's in trouble!
You'd better let me handle this, ma'am! For your own safety, I must ask you to stand back!
Oh, brother.
Ta-da!
Uh... thanks.
How would you describe what I just did? Would you say I was amazing?
Aren't you milking this a bit?
Please, just answer the question! Was I, or was I not, amazing?
Oh, you're amazing alright. An amazingly–
Oh, look!
Another great feat of heroism! I have just saved that grass!
"Pine Breeze": From what?
From weeds! Weeds that were attempting to eat this lawn!
Lame...
Whatever.
Aww, who am I kidding?
All anypony talks about is Mare Do Well this and Mare Do Well that! What about me? How could everypony forget about me so easily? I mean... have I changed? Same sleek body. Same flowing mane. Same spectacular hooves. Nope, I'm still awesome. They're wrong. But... then... why am I all alone? I hate being all alone.
Hey, Rainbow Dash!
I knew it! No need to apologize, squirt. Anypony could make that mistake.
Mistake? What mistake?
Wait a minute. Why are you here?
To invite you to join us! We're heading off to the thank you parade for Ponyville's greatest hero, Mare Do Well.
No! No way! Can't you see I-I wanna be alone? I love being alone.
Oh, okay. See you later then.
Yeah, right, like I'm gonna thank her. [mockingly] Thank you, Mare Do Well, whoever you are, for ruining e– [normal] Hey, squirt! Wait up!
Welcome to Ponyville's first, but surely not last, thank you parade, in honor of our city's greatest hero, the mysterious Mare Do Well!
The mysterious Mare Do Well, huh?
So what are you hiding? Let's see how mysterious you are without that mask!
What the hay?
Grrr... I got you now! Alright, Miss Mysterious! Mystery... solved! [yelps] P-p-p-p- Pinkie?! Whudda- hud-d-duh- hud-d-duh- huh?! Twilight?! Applejack?! There were three of you?!
Yup, we all played Mare Do Well at different times.
I stopped the carriage bus with these babies, Bucky McGillicuddy and Kicks McGee.
Sorry!
It's alright.
And I used my magic to fix the dam.
Ooh, ooh! And I did the flyby afterwards.
I made the costumes. Fabulous if I do say so myself!
I don't understand. Why? Don't you want me to be a hero?
Of course we want you to be a hero.
But a real hero doesn't brag.
Uh, I guess I did start to brag a little.
A little?!
Okay, a lot.
Celebrating your accomplishments is natural. But...
...Rubbin' them in everypony's face is not.
I think we're getting off topic here.
What we're trying to say is, it's great to be really good at something, but it's important to act with grace and humility.
Ohhhh. That makes loads more sense. Yeah. You're right. And I guess I should've also acted with grace and humility when others outshine me. Like Mare Do Well.
Sounds like you've got a letter to write to Princess Celestia.
Already got it covered. As your ghost writer, I've already penned a letter to the Princess.
That's nice of you, Spike, but I really wanna write this letter myself.
Aww, come on, I wrote the whole thing already!
Okay, let's hear it.
[clears throat] Dear Princess Cel-
Look out! It's a real ghost!
[gasp] Here? I get to stay here?
Twilight Sparkle said you were coming to Canterlot for a visit, and asked if I might accommodate you.
Thank you so much, Princess.
You're very welcome.
No, really. This is so nice of you.
It's nothing, really.
You are very we–
Thank you!
[pant] Your luggage, mademoiselle?
I'll leave you to get settled.
Your highness.
Enjoy your stay.
Thank you!
[straining] Where would you like me to put these?
That's perfect.
Please excuse our interruption. I'm Jet Set, and this is my wife Upper Crust. We saw you from across the cafe and just had to find out...
...Where did you get that simply marvelous chapeau?
Oh, this old thing? Oh, it's just something I–
Rarity! Hey, Rarity! Whoo! It's me, Hayseed Turnip Truck! We met at the big hoedown in Ponyville last month?
Oh, yes, of course... how are you?
Good! Real good!
Hmm...
You're from... Ponyville?
Well, yeah, yes, but–
She sure is! She's a real big-time fancy pants dressmaker there! Probably made that real purty thing she's got on her head!
I thought it looked a little country.
I told you it wasn't something you could get here in Canterlot, dear.
Hmph!
Well, they seemed real nice.
"Looked a little country". "Not something you can get in Canterlot". I'll show you something worthy of Canterlot!
[panting] I have to get started right away. This new design is very ambitious, and I've already written to Twilight to let her know she'll have something beyond fabulous to wear to her party. [gasps] Fancy Pants!
I say, that's one way to make an introduction.
Oh, goodness, I am so sorry. I didn't see you there. I've just got so many bags and I was trying to get back to my suite at the castle and–
You're staying at the castle?
Wh– The Princess invited me to stay in one of the suites.
You know the Princess?
Hmm, a pony with expensive tastes, I see.
Oh, it's for an ensemble I'm making for a friend. Her birthday is in a few days. [pants] Again, I am really sorry I bumped into you.
I'm not! Heheh, you are obviously somepony worth bumping into! Listen, I have a VIP box reserved at the Wonderbolts Derby this afternoon. Would you, would you be so kind as to join me and a few of my companions there?
Me?
But of course, my dear.
Well, I'm, uh, ah- no- sure.
We'd love to see you there, uh...?
Rarity.
Rarity.
Pardon me. 'Scuse me, 'scuse me!
Rarity, jolly good to see you! So glad you could make it.
Everypony, this is Rarity. She's staying at Canterlot Castle.
Fillies and gentlecolts, welcome to the Wonderbolts Derby! The competitors are taking their places at the starting line, and the race will begin momentarily!
I'll be rooting for Rapidfire, of course. He's sure to take home the grand prize.
I don't think he has a chance against Fleetfoot.
And it's Fleetfoot by a nose!
Bravo, Rarity! I say, how did you know Fleetfoot would be victorious?
My friend Rainbow Dash talks about her all the time. She says what Fleetfoot lacks in size, she makes up for in speed.
And who is this 'Rainbow Dash'?
Uh... [gulps] Why... she's... she's the... the Wonderbolts' trainer, of course.
Staying at Canterlot Castle, and she knows the Pegasus training the Wonderbolts. I told you all this was an important pony.
Three cheers for Rarity, my new favorite party guest!
Hip hip, hooray! Hip hip, hooray! Hip hip, hooray!
...And then I said, "Puh-lease, that isn't a hat, darling, that's a natural disaster that somehow landed atop your head!"
Oh, I'd love to, but I–
And let's not forget my charity auction tomorrow morning.
Well, that sounds wonderful, but I–
And of course there's a seat for you at my dinner party tomorrow night.
I'm flattered, really. It's just I have a project I really need to get started on, and-
Oh, but Rarity! I may as well close down the whole gallery if you can't attend!
My auction is for charity, dear. For charity...
And my dinner party will be a disaster if you don't come.
...of course I'll be there.
Wonderful!
Oh, thank goodness!
Disaster averted!
Looks like we'll be spending a few more days here, Opalescence. Turns out bumping into Fancy Pants like that was the best thing that's ever happened to me. Of course, finishing Twilight's dress in time for her birthday party is still my top priority, but I can't possibly disappoint the Canterlot elite by rejecting their invitations now, can I?
I'll be the toast of the town, the girl on the go I'm the type of pony every pony, every pony should know I'll be the one to watch, the girl in the flow I'm the type of pony every pony, every pony should know
Becoming as popular as popular can be Making my mark, making my mark in high society I'm the belle of the ball, the star of the show, yeah I'm the type of pony every pony, every pony should know
See how they hang on every word that I speak My approving glance is what they all seek I'm the creme de la creme, not just another Jane Doe I'm the type of pony every pony should know
At home, at the opera, on a fancy yacht Becoming the talk, the talk of all of Canterlot I'm the creme de la creme, not just another Jane Doe, yeah I'm the type of pony every pony, every pony should know
Because I'm the type of pony Yes, I'm the type of pony Yes, I'm the type of pony every pony should know
Oh, I hope I haven't forgotten anything.
Me... too...
We'd better get going.
I must get back to Ponyville with enough time to finish Twilight's ensemble.
For me? Dearest Rarity, your presence is requested at the Canterlot garden party tomorrow afternoon. Yours, Jet Set and Upper Crust! [gasps] The Canterlot garden party! Why, next to the Galloping Gala that is the premier event in Canterlot! [squeals] Oh, but if I go, I'll miss Twilight's birthday... But if I don't go, my new reputation in Canterlot as a Very Important Pony might be ruined! I might never be invited to another high society event again! Friend's birthday... Very Important Pony... [winces] It's just too important. [takes deep breath] My dear Twilight, I am afraid I won't be able to make it to your birthday party tomorrow, because... because poor Opal is quite ill, and she is in no condition to make the long journey back to Ponyville! I do hope you understand. Your friend, Rarity.
I suppose this means you don't need me to bring down your bags?
No. But, I will need some help unpacking them.
Oomph!
What do you think? Too much? You're right. Too little. Ah, garden party, here I come!
Surprise!
[fades in] Swoosh! And right before she hit the ground, shoom, she– Hi again!
What are you– how did you– Why are you–
Listen to her. She's so excited to see us, she can hardly talk.
What I mean to say is, what are you all doing here?
When I got your letter saying you were stuck in Canterlot, I asked Pinkie Pie if it wouldn't be too much trouble to move my birthday party here, so you wouldn't have to miss it!
Balloons are super easy to pack.
Wow... First you get me a suite at Canterlot Castle and now this. I don't know what to say, Twilight.
How about you start by saying what you're doing in that fancy getup?
Oh, poor Opal. Where is the sick darling?
Oh, uhh, she's... Hold on a minute.
Huh?
I am so sorry about this.
She's resting on the bed.
Poor baby.
She looks awful.
Is... that my dress?
Yes.
It's so... simple. So practical. So me! It's the perfect dress for my birthday party! I love it!
[sighs in relief] You don't know how glad I am to hear you say that.
When I told the Princess that I was moving the party to Canterlot, she was kind enough to offer us the Canterlot Castle ballroom!
Isn't it fancy pants?
Oh, I never leave home without my party cannon!
Ta-da!
I thought about having my birthday outside, but they're having another party on the castle grounds today.
Let's party!
Mmh... No reason I can't at least make an appearance...
I'm here!
Darling, I'm so glad you made it.
Rarity! So happy to see you here.
I wouldn't have missed this for the world.
[sniffs] I say, what is that scent you're wearing? It smells like... [sniffs] Is that cake frosting?
...Yes, I always dab a little frosting behind my ears before I go out. [laughs nervously] After all, who doesn't like the smell of cake frosting?
I know I do.
Mm-hmm.
[sighs] Well, all this talk about cake has made me hungry. Think I'll go and see what's on the hors d'oeuvre table. If you'll excuse me...
I think I left the bathwater running in my suite.
I really should go check on Opal...
Is that Princess Celestia?
[hushed] I need to use the little fillies' room!
Can I get anypony more punch?
Uh, what's with the croquet mallet?
[muffled] What croquet mallet?
Duh, the one in your mouth!
[laughs nervously] Ooh, that croquet mallet. I- well I, you know, the truth is... the truth is...
Were you at that other party in the garden?
I, I...
Rarity, I'm surprised at you.
Twilight let me explain! I–
I hadn't realized you were such a savvy businesspony!
You must understand! I–
All of those ponies look so posh. And with the Grand Galloping Gala coming up, I bet you could totally get some of them to buy your dresses. Very smart!
Oh, well, you didn't have to do that. You should totally go over there and mingle!
Twilight, you really are the best friend a pony could ever ask for. I don't know why I ever thought you wouldn't understand.
Understand what?
Nothing. See you girls later!
Hey, wait up! We're your friends! I'm sure they won't mind if we check out the party too! C'mon, you guys! Let's show them how to party Ponyville style!
Oh no!
Mmm!
How come y'all aren't doing any gardening? This is a garden party, isn't it?
Can you believe what that pony is wearing?
It's just so plain.
[nervous laugh] Yeah.
Excuse me, might I ask where you got your ensemble?
Why, yes! Yes, you may. A very, very close friend of mine from Ponyville made it for me.
Ponyville? You don't say?
I do say. Her name is–
Fancy Pants! Come with me! I'd like to show you this, er, thing that's over there. On the other side of the room.
In a moment, my dear. This lovely filly from Ponyville was just about to tell me who made her charming dress.
That dress? Oh come now, who cares, it's just a plain old–
Oh, don't be so modest! This dress you made is beautiful!
We all think so!
[to Rarity] You know these ponies?
Yes. Yes, I do know them. They may not be as sophisticated as some of you Canterlot ponies, but they are my best friends. And they are without a doubt the most important ponies I know.
Important ponies? These ruffians?
Don't make me laugh!
I, for one, find them charmingly rustic.
And I think the dress you made for your friend is lovely. [chuckle] I dare say every mare in Canterlot will be wanting one.
Oh, I'd like to place my order right now.
I think you should get two.
Er, yes, now then. How about you introduce me to your friends?
With pleasure!
Dear Princess Celestia,
I wanted to tell you about the important lesson I learned during my visit.
Now that I would like to hear.
I learned that no matter where you go in life, you should never forget that you are the product of your home and your friends. And that is something always to be proud of, no matter what.
Hm, a very valuable lesson to have learned.
It certainly is! But... might I ask that we hurry things up a bit?! Oh no!
No distractions. Today is too important. Re-shelving day! Understanding Medieval Equestria goes in Pony History. Modern Spellcasting. That's Classics. The Art of the To-Do List... Actually, I kinda wanna read that again.
Spike! What are you laughing at?
This little beauty is my birthday present to myself! It's a fire ruby! I've been aging it for months, and it's almost ripe!
[giggles] Hey, you took my advice! Just use the whole floor as one big shelf.
[muffled] Hellooo? [normal] Anypony home? Twilight? [gasps] Is that a fire ruby?! Huh, that must be at least twenty carats! No inclusions, pristine facets...
And totally delicious.
Uhh... if you guys don't mind?
Oh, uh, of course. I just came by to see if you had any books on historical fashion... [to Spike] Did you say... delicious?
Sure did! Next week's my birthday, and this is my birthday dinner.
Start with this one.
Thanks, Twilight. I've got a feeling ruffled taffeta capes are going to make a huge comeback this season, and I want to be ahead of the game... [to Spike] I hope it's as tasty as it is beautiful, Spike. I've never seen anything quite so stunning before.
Gosh... You really like it, huh?
Like it? It's magnificent.
[sighs] Then you should have it. This beautiful gem was meant to be with you.
I don't know what to say... This is so thoughtful. Oh, my little Spikey-wikey! [kisses] Thank you so much!
Wow, Spike, that's one of the kindest, most generous things you've ever done. I've never seen Rarity so happy!
Just about finished, Spike? Everypony will be here soon.
There. Perfect! Everything looks perfect!
Not quite everything.
A washcloth? I don't get it. Ah, no way, Twilight! I said I wasn't gonna wash the cheek that Rarity kissed, and I meant it!
It's over, Spike! I'm cleaning that cheek!
[gasps for breath] It's mine! Stop it!
Never!
Twilight...!
[blows party hooter] Happy birthday!
Party time, woo-hoo!
Are those... for me?
You bet they are, birthday boy.
Happy birthday, Spike.
Don't you know you get presents on your birthday?
Well, actually, this is my first birthday in Ponyville... I usually just get one present... from Twilight. A book.
Speaking of presents, this is from my new line of taffeta capes. I'm going to make one for each of you!
I've been inspired by the generosity of my little Spikey-wikey, who gave me this beautiful fire ruby, one of the kindest acts I've ever experienced. Mmm.
Applejack, I can't thank you enough for this great blanket. I really needed a new one.
C'mon, Spike, you already thanked me fifteen times. I'm startin' to get a little embarrassed.
I know I keep thanking you guys, but I'm just so grateful. I wish this party could last forever.
Duh! The party can't last forever 'cause you have to go to Sugarcube Corner, 'cause the Cakes said they have a special surprise for you, 'cause it's your birthday!
No way!
I said the party couldn't last forever, but it doesn't need to end right now!
Hi, Mr. and Mrs. Cake!
Mr. There's the dragon of the hour! Happy birthday, Spike!
Thanks!
Mrs. When we found out it was your birthday, we couldn't resist trying out a new recipe: sapphire!
Wow!
Thank you so much! Man, first I get a bunch of great presents from my best friends, and now an amazing sapphire cupcake! Hohoh, what a day! Whoa! Oh my gosh! I'm so sorry, Cheerilee!
That's okay. What's got you so excited?
[chomps] [muffled] Pinkie Pie told me I should come see the Cakes, so they could give me a cake 'cause it's my birthday today.
Well, happy birthday, Spike! I wish I had something to give you! Uh... Oh! Here you go!
Wow, really?
Sure! Everypony should get fun gifts on their birthday! Have a great birthday, Spike.
I wish every day was my birthday...
Pinkie Pie mentions my birthday to the Cakes, and I get a cupcake. I mention it to Cheerilee, and I get this great hat.
Hmmm, I wonder... Hey there, Lickety Split! That's a pretty cool ball you got there! Did you know it's my birthday?
[laughs] This is unbelievable! [chuckles] Hey, Junebug! It's my birthday!
Happy birthday, Spike.
Aren't you gonna give me something? You know, like a birthday present?
Um, I... I don't have anything.
Well, how about those flowers? I'll take those–
Spike! Uh, sorry, Junebug, I think Spike might've gotten a little carried away.
Uh, no problem... H-Happy birthday, Spike!
What are you doing? You're out here demanding gifts now?
Wow, you're right, Twilight. I don't know what got into me. Thanks for snapping me out of it. I'd better go give Cheerilee her hat back.
No problem. See you at home later?
Wow, what a rough night's sleep, Spike. I had the weirdest drea–
[yawns/hisses] What happened?
What's happening to me, Twilight?!
I don't know! Think back to last night. Did something happen? Spike? What did you do after I saw you?
I went to talk... to...
Spike!
Huh?
You went to talk to who?
Oh, um... I don't remember. Hey, can I have that globe? You're not using it, right?
Huh?
What about this book?
Spike, I'm worried about you. You're usually not so... grabby!
My arms aren't usually [voice drops] this long either. What's happening to me?
Dr. Well now, what seems to be the problem?
This is Spike. [slaps] And something's wrong with him. [slaps] He used to be half this size! And he keeps trying to take things that aren't [slaps] his!
Dr. All right then, let's just have a look see, shall we? Widdle guy not feewing too good? Who's a brave widdle boy, huh? Who's a brave one?
So? What do you think, Doctor?
Dr. Well, I think I know what the problem is. He's a dragon!
That's not the problem. He's always been a dragon.
Dr. Oh. Well, that would explain it. Listen, I don't know anything about dragons, I know about baby ponies. Maybe you should try a vet.
[sighs] Okay. Thank you, doctor.
Dr. Hm, well, I'm flummoxed. Y'bring me a dog, I've got it diagnosed in seconds. Snake even faster, but... to be honest, I've never seen a real live dragon before.
Dr. Who's a good boy? Who's a good boy? Sit.
Thanks anyway. C'mon, Spike.
Ooh, he is starting to mature. Of this fact I am quite sure.
Mature? So he's just... growing up? But that doesn't explain why he keeps grabbing things.
A dragon's heart is prone to greed, a steady diet to make growth speed. Then, the resulting bigger size only makes their hunger rise. If this trait should go unchecked, if Spike continues to collect, more growth will certainly occur – he is going to turn into a monster.
[gasps] You mean the more things a dragon collects, the bigger and greedier he gets? But how do we stop him before he's completely out of control?
If his monstrous ways you wish to impede, you must prevent him from practicing greed.
Get away from her, you brute!
Spike want!
You're not getting my scooter!
Spike want!
Hey, Spike! Check out this amazing broom!
[sing-song voice] C'mon, big boy! Look at this incredible broom!
Spike want!
Fight all you want, I'm not letting you out! Oh, Spike, I just re-shelved this room!
[groans] What now?
Now who in Ponyville would steal my apples? For that matter, who would steal my leaves?
Applejack, help! Spike's running wild and I need you to lasso him!
[laughs] Oh, that's a good one, Twilight. Sweet little Spike, running wild. Ha, what a laugh.
Twilight, get my rope.
Help!
Huh? [laughs] Don't tell me! You-you tied yourselves up?
Get us out of here right now!
[gasps] What was that?
Sounded like Fluttershy to me!
Fluttershy? Fluttershy!?
I'm up here!
What happened?
I was helping my squirrel friends with a dance step, and all of a sudden, a giant, r-rampaging d-d-d-dragon stormed through!
That was Spike!
Spike? But why would Spike steal my chicken coop? He just pulled it out of the ground and filled it with a bunch of apples and stuff!
That sounded like Pinkie Pie!
C'mon, girls!
Back! Get back!
Pinkie Pie! Stop giving him cake!
I'm not giving him cake, I'm assaulting him with cake!
How dare you take the cake!
He's completely out of control! Who knows where he'll go next!
Put me down, you brute!
How rude.
Don't worry Rarity, we'll save you!
Put her down, right now!
I-If you wouldn't mind, that is...
I mean it, dragon boy!
We'll be ever so grateful if you'd be so kind as to possibly consider...
Drop her, scaly!
Hey! I'm– not some– sort of common– fly swatter!
Girls! My cape!
Look! The Wonderbolts!
Oh, be quiet. You've got nothing to be proud of. You steal everypony's things, terrorize the town, and use me as a weapon against my own friends! Which, as horrible as it is, I can almost understand because you're a dragon and all. But this! [rips off dress] This is a crime against fashion! Oh no. You are not getting this gemstone! This was given to me by my dear friend Spikey-wikey, the kindest, sweetest, most generous dragon ever. And it is too precious to me to give to a greedy old beast like you!
Spike (flashback): Here, Rarity, you take it. It would mean even more to see you happy than to eat it myself.
Oh, what now? I suppose you'll be eating me or something? Spike?! You're the rampaging dragon?!
Somepony do something!
On it!
Rarity? I need to tell you something! Just in case we don't make it! I've always sort of had a crush–
[gasps] We did it! I can't believe we did it!
All in a day's work.
Spike, I just have to tell you how absolutely proud I am of you.
Proud of me?
Dear Princess Celestia,
Today I learned a great lesson about friendship. Well, you might think that it would feel good to get lots and lots of stuff, but it doesn't feel nearly as good as giving something special to somepony you really care about. But I learned that it truly is better to give than to receive, and that kindness and generosity are what lead to true friendship. And that's more valuable than anything in the world. Well... almost anything.
We're getting closer!
I can hardly wait!
I'm so excited, I-I feel like shouting! [softly] Woo-hoo!
Hooo-wee! Canterlot, here we come!
Oh, I do hope I look festive enough!
There it is! Canterlot!
Oooh...
Oh, isn't Canterlot wonderful this time of year?
Yeah, I wish it was Hearth's Warming Eve every day.
There's so much to look at! I feel like my durned eyes are gonna pop right out of my head!
I have an idea, let's play 'I spy with my little eye' as we walk! I'll go first. I spy... an eight-foot candy cane.
I spy a snowpony!
I spy somepony eating a gingerbread house...
[munching] ...and it's me!
I can't believe that Princess Celestia chose us to put on the most important play of the season! Do you guys know what an honor this is? For all of us?
Oh, I wish she hadn't honored me quite so much... I can't go onstage! I don't want everypony looking at me!
Fluttershy, darling, there's nothing to feel nervous about.
No?
Of course not. All across Equestria, ponies are preparing their own pageants for Hearth's Warming Eve in their own towns. It's tradition.
So you're saying they'll be too busy to come to our play?
Well, no. We're in the Canterlot pageant, the biggest, most important production in all of Equestria. A lot of ponies will come to watch us.
A lot?
Hundreds.
Hundreds?
[gasps] Maybe even thousands!
Oh, my hair! Applejack? Be a dear and shut those windows, will you?
Aaah! Rain-bow-Dash! Rain-bow-Dash! Aaaah! Thank you, thank you!
It's a reenactment of the founding of Equestria. It's not the 'Rainbow Dash Show'.
Well it should be the 'Rainbow Dash Show'! I'm the star!
Fluttershy, you've got to come out of there!
Curtain in two minutes!
Twilight, let me handle this.
My hair!
PINKIE!
The Hearth's Warming Eve pageant is about harmony and friendship.
Shut the window!
[with a faux British accent] Once upon a time, long before the peaceful rule of Celestia, and before ponies discovered our beautiful land of Equestria, ponies did not know harmony. It was a strange and dark time. A time when ponies were torn apart... by hatred!
[normal voice] I know. Can you believe it? [accent] During this frightful age, each of the three tribes – the Pegasi, the unicorns, and the Earth ponies – cared not for what befell the other tribes, but only for their own welfare. In those troubled times, as now, the Pegasi were the stewards of the weather. But they demanded something in return. Food that could only be grown by the Earth ponies.
The unicorns demanded the same, in return for magically bringing forth day and night. And so, mistrust between the tribes festered, until one fateful day, it came to a boil. And what prompted the ponies to clash? 'Twas a mysterious blizzard that overtook the land, and toppled the tribes' precarious peace.
The normally industrious Earth ponies were unable to farm their land.
The Earth ponies were freezing. The home of the Pegasi fared no better. The Pegasi were hungry. And the unicorns were freezing and hungry. Even the unicorns' magic was powerless against the storm. Each tribe blamed the others for their suffering, and the angrier everypony grew, the worse the blizzard became. And so it was decided that a grand summit would be held to figure out a way to cope with the blizzard.
Each tribe sent their leaders.
Daughter of the unicorn king, Princess Platinum.
Ruler of the Pegasi, Commander Hurricane. And lastly...
...leader of the Earth ponies, Chancellor Puddinghead. Perhaps the three tribes could finally settle their differences, and agree on a way to get through this disaster.
All I wanna know is why the Earth ponies are hogging all the food!
Us?! We're not hogging all the food, you are! Oh, wait. You're right. It's us. Well, it's only 'cause you mean old Pegasusususes are making it snow like crazy!
For the hundredth time, it's not us! We're not making it snow! It must be the unicorns! They're doing it with their freaky magic!
[gasps] How dare you! Unlike you Pegasi ruffians, we unicorns would never stoop to such a thing! H-m-ph!
Hmph!
Well, if you non-Earths aren't gonna stop using your weirdo powers to freeze us all, then I'm just plum out of ideas.
What a shocker. An Earth pony with no ideas.
Commander Hurricane, please cease with the insults!
You're not the boss of me, your royal snootiness!
I beg your pardon?! I am a princess! I won't be spoken to that way!
Well, I'm leaving first!
No, I'm first!
And the blizzard raged on.
So the summit of the tribes did not turn out as well as hoped, and the three leaders returned home to lick their wounds, and basically complain.
Atten-tion! Well? Aren't you curious about how it went?
Oh! Commander Hurricane, sir! How did it go, sir?
Horribly! Those other tribe leaders are so disrespectful! Don't they realize that we are a mighty tribe of warriors, and should not be crossed? We have got to break ranks with those weak foals!
[shivering] Clover the Clever! I need you!
Yes, your Majesty. Did the other pony tribes see reason as I predicted?
Those other tribes are impossible! I, for one, can no longer bear to be anywhere near those lowly creatures. The unicorns are noble and majestic. We will no longer consort with the likes of them!
Wouldn't it have been easier to use the door, Chancellor?
Maybe for you, Smart Cookie. But I am a chancellor. I was elected because I know how to think outside the box. Which means [slightly echoes] I can also think inside the chimney. Can you think inside a chimney?
Uh...
I didn't think so.
Ugh.
Ohmygosh. Hold on to your hooves! I am just about to be brilliant!
[under her breath] That'd be a first.
I have decided that the Earth ponies are gonna go it alone!
Aw, so you mean the other tribes didn't come around? Shoot... I really thought we could get through to 'em if we–
Don't worry about them. We're the ones with all the food, right?
Actually, we're all out.
Fine, then we'll have to go somewhere new where we can grow some new food. And with me as our fearless leader, what could go wrong?
[under her breath] Where should I start?
The point is...
Pinkie Pie, We must find a new land!
C'mon, Private Pansy, let's get a move on! Hup-one, hup-two!
Get a hold of yourself, Private! We cannot let anything distract us from the mission at hand. To find, and if necessary, to conquer a new land!
Conquer, sir?
You never know where enemies might be lurking.
I don't see any enemies, Commander. Just... snow.
Okay. This is getting old.
Oh, this is simply taking forever. My hooves are killing me! How long have we been walking for?
About five minutes, your highness.
Oh, I never imagined finding a new land would be so hard. But it'll all be worth it, don't you agree?
I actually think that the three tribes could've tried harder.
Stoooooop!
What's wrong?
That is what's wrong!
Your Highness, it's just a stream. We can cross it easily.
I refuse to get my gown wet. I have no intention of arriving at my new land looking like a bedraggled Earth pony, or worse yet a rough-and-tumble Pegasus. I, for one, have no intention of stooping down to their level. On the other hand, I have no trouble watching you stoop down.
And do watch the gown, darling. It's worth more than all of the books in your library.
Yes, yes. This is definitely the right direction.
It feels like we're going in circles.
But that's impossible. Are you suggesting that I'm reading the map wrong?
Absolutely not, your chancellorness. It's just that there are holes in the map, and–
Of course! How else could I see where I was going?
Yeah, uh–
Or talk? I need to be able to talk! I mean, how would we survive if I just suddenly shut up?
Heaven forbid that should happen, your chancellorship. Heh. It's just that... the map is also upside down.
I got a newsflash for you, Cookie. The Earth is round. There is no up or down.
You're right! It's such a relief to me that you're in charge of this map...
Relief? You don't need relief! If anypony needs relief around here, it's me! I'm a chancellor! I'm a bigshot! You're just my, um... my, uh...
Secretary.
Whatever. You take the map, while I enjoy some relief.
Yes, Chancellor Puddinghead.
[accent] And so, each leader encountered obstacles along the way, but eventually, they all arrived in a new and wondrous land. Nopony had ever seen paradise before.
This is the new land we've been searching for!
What a view... I can see my future house from here.
I proclaim this new land to be... Pegasopolis!
I've never seen such jewels! This ruby is dazzling. This whole land is dazzling. I'm double dazzled! [squeals] In the name of the unicorns, I hereby dub this land Unicornia!
The air! The trees! The dirt! This dirt is the dirtiest dirt in the whole dirt world!
And fertile, too. Perfect for growing food.
In the name of the Earth ponies, I think I'm gonna call this new place... uh... Dirtville.
How about "Earth"?
Earth! Congratulations to me for thinking of it.
Pinkie Pie, We found our new home!
I planted my flag first!
Did not!
Did too!
I planted mine earlier than first.
All of you riffraff are trespassing in Unicornia!
The name is Pegasopolis!
Earth!
Pegasopolis!
Unicornia!
I say we fight for the land. May the best pony win!
That's barbaric. Clover the Clever? Throw that brute into the dungeon!
What dungeon? Look, perhaps if we all calmed down...
I agree. Let's all calm down.
I vote for calm.
I'll have you court-martialed for insubordination, Private! We settle this on the battlefield!
Who dares throw a snowball at royalty?!
Wait a minute, where'd all this snow come from anyway?
Oh no. Not again.
[accent] And so the paradise that the ponies had found was soon lost, buried beneath a thick blanket of snow and hard feelings. Instead of beautiful, it was blizzardy. Instead of wonderful, it was wintry! Instead of spectacular, it was snow-tacular! Instead of–
We get it! Move on!
[laughs nervously] [clears throat] [accent] Everypony was forced to seek shelter. They searched high and low, but the only shelter for miles was a cold and desolate cave. And, of course, the three tribes had to share it, and nopony was too happy about that.
Please, Commander Hothead.
It's Commander Hurricane.
[clears throat] Please, Commander, could you just stand back and give me my royal space?
You mean like this, your highness?
Indeed not! You see this invisible line?
Private? Outline our territory for everypony to see. See this real, non-invisible line? No unicorns or Earth ponies are allowed to cross it! This is the sovereign territory of Pegasopolis!
Clover the Clever?
Uh... Smart Cookie!
I know, I know.
What are you doing? Don't go around the rock, go over it! I'm not giving up an inch of territory to the enemy!
That rock is clearly on the Unicornia side of the cave, and it belongs to us! [under her breath] Who knows? there could be jewels inside.
[groans] I claim this rock for Pegasopolis!
Unhand that rock this instant, you scoundrel!
Oh, look, you found my rock. I've been looking for it everywhere.
Hey! You invaded our territory!
Finders keepers, losers weepers!
That's the last straw!
Give me my rock!
Look, everypony! The entrance!
Great. Now there's no way out! We're trapped!
You two deserve this horrible fate. You've done nothing but argue and fight with each other!
You've been fighting too, your Highness.
Yeah! Worse! I haven't been fighting nearly as much as you!
How ridiculous! A unicorn never stoops to fighting!
That's just 'cause you wimpy unicorns know you'd never win! Earth ponies are numbskulls!
Pegasi are brutes!
Unicorns are snobs!
W-W-What is that... thing?
They must be... windigos!
Windigos?
My mentor Star Swirl the Bearded taught me about them. They're winter spirits that feed off fighting and hatred. The more hate the spirit feels, the colder things become!
Then... this is our fault. We three tribes... we brought this blizzard to our home by fightin' and not trustin' each other. Now it's destroyin' this land, too.
And now our bodies will become as cold as our hearts... all because we were foolish enough to hate.
Well, I don't hate you... I actually hate Commander Hurricane a lot more than I hate you guys.
Actually, I don't really hate her, I just really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really dislike her.
Well, I don't hate you guys either.
Nor do I.
No matter what our differences, we're all ponies.
What was that?
I didn't know unicorns could do that.
I didn't either. Nothing like this has ever happened before. But I know it couldn't have been just me. It came from all three of us, joined together, in friendship.
[accent] All through the night, the three ponies kept the fire of friendship alive by telling stories to one another and by singing songs, which of course became the winter carols that we all still sing today. Eventually, the warmth of the fire and singing and laughing reached the leaders, and their bodies began to thaw. [normal voice] And it even began to melt their hearts.
[accent] The three leaders agreed to share the beautiful land, and live in harmony ever afterwards. And together, they named their new land...
Equestria!
The fire of friendship lives in our hearts As long as it burns, we cannot drift apart Though quarrels arise, their numbers are few Laughter and singing will see us through (will see us through) We are a circle of pony friends A circle of friends we'll be to the very end
We should be so honored that Princess Celestia chose us! She must really think we exemplify what good friends are!
Applejack, I thought you closed all the windows.
Don't blame me. Rainbow Dash should've flown up there and shut it. After all, she's got wings.
Why do I always have to do all the high up chores? Why can't Twilight use her magic for a change!
Y'know what? I got it.
The timberwolves are a-howlin'! The timberwolves are a-howlin'!
Eeyup.
The zap apples are comin'! The zap apples are comin'!
Applejack, Yay, the zap apples are comin'!
That's what I said.
Hey, silly goose! Quit your gawkin' and move your caboose!
Eeyup.
Ready, Granny!
Ready for what?
For makin' zap apple jam!
Darn tootin'! It's time for some good old-fashioned zap apple jammin'!
Yes, ma'am. I can't wait, ma'am!
[pause] Wait for what?
To make zap apple jam with you!
O'course. Now I been doin' this ever since I was a little pony, so be warned, pickle pear. There's a whole mess o' steps in this process and you gots to get each one of them just right, or no zap apple jam. Take this.
Uh, is this one of your gazillion secret herbal ingredients for the zap apple jam?
That there's a broom. Now get sweepin', pipsqueak! Now while you sweep, I'll get to, uh... something there... umm... Oh, ponyfeathers. Bet I'd forget my mane if it wasn't attached to my head.
There's the zap apple leaves, right on schedule!
A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, J, K, L-M-N-O-P...
Well, howdy-doo there, Filthy Rich!
Hello, Mrs. Smith. Did I hear right that there's a zap apple harvest coming in a few days?
Four days, to be exact.
Excellent news, and as usual, I get your first hundred jars?
'Course, Filthy.
Uh, I prefer Rich.
Oh, and how is your pappy doin'?
Oh, you poor, poor thing, having to make all that zap apple jam with Granny Smith.
Actually, I been looking forward to making zap apple jam for years!
I'm not talking about the jam. I'm talking about Granny Smith! You must be sooo embarrassed.
[muffled] Soup's on!
Uh, what do ya mean?
You know, with all her silly ways, how she forgets things, and makes you wear these ridiculous costumes?
Granny said that the water needs–
Thank goodness you're here on the farm and not in town where everypony could see you. [hushed] Don't worry. Your secret is safe with me.
"Silly ways"?
Uh, thank you kindly, Filthy!
Hey! You bite it, you buy it!
Oh, isn't this just precious?
Please stop!
And it is perfect for makin' our zap apple jam!
Shh! Stop it, Granny!
Granny, please! Those ponies over there are watchin' me!
What? Are those fillies your friends? Hello, Half-pint's friends!
Hiii, Granny Smith! Hiii, [mockingly] Half-pint!
What dolls. Why, when I was little, ponies didn't come that purdy.
Are we done shopping, Granny? 'Cause I'd like to get back to the farm, fast.
All done, smellybelly. [singing] I got my honey, gooey-goo! Got my honey, gooey-ooh! Got my honey, iddley-hoo!
And, by capturing the whole sale market, purchasing in bulk and slashing all prices, we undermine every other gift market in town, and that's how Rich's Barnyard Bargains became the cornerstone of retail in Ponyville.
Well, thank you, Mr. Filthy—I mean, Mr. Rich. What a wonderful day of sharing! And thank you for being a part of Family Appreciation Day! Now, uh, let's see who will be bringing in a family member for next Monday's Family Appreciation Day. Um... Oh! Apple Bloom!
But Miss Cheerilee. Monday is zap apple harvest day, and Applejack and Big McIntosh will be too busy to come and speak.
Well, is there anypony else in your family that could–
Miss Cheerilee. Apple Bloom's Granny Smith isn't working harvest. She could come.
Oh! But, uh, no, that wouldn't–
That's a splendid idea, Diamond Tiara! Apple Bloom, you shall bring in Granny Smith on Monday.
Have a great weekend, everypony!
Granny Smith? Come Monday, I'll be the laughin' stock of Ponyville!
I'm sorry, Apple Bloom. I already told you that we just can't take a break from harvest to come to your school. You know what'll happen.
I know... After the fifth day, the zap apples disappear...
Look! The third sign! Right on time! Hot diggity!
Wow!
Alright, you lazy daisies, move your caboose!
I'm sorry, Apple Bloom, but don't you fret. Granny Smith's got no shortage of entertainin' stories to tell.
I know. That's what I'm worried about.
I'll be embarrassed, shamed, disgraced, mortified, humiliate–
What are you, a dictionary?
Snap out of it. We're here to help you!
After all, we are the Cutie Mark Crusaders. We'll figure out a way to postpone your presentation.
But how? Ugh! All this worry is makin' me sick!
Sick?
That's it! C'mon!
Ten-hut! Now listen here, troops! Now, I don't want any whinin' or cryin' or crackin' under pressure! Do I make myself clear!?
Court-martialed!
Stay still, Apple Bloom! You have to look sick!
Aaah! [muffled] Hey, this is hot!
What in the hayseed is going on in there, silly billy?
Oh, Granny Smith! We were just about to come get you!
Apple Bloom's sick! Looks like she might have to stay home all week!
[mumbles] Ooh! Perfect as a Piccadilly pear!
Now what?
It's already almost sundown! Tomorrow is Sunday, and I only have one more day to figure something out!
Hey! Look!
That's the fourth sign!
The zap apples have appeared!
And that gives me an idea!
We can't move Family Appreciation Day, so let's move harvest day instead!
They don't look... quite ripe.
Harvesting apples early never hurt an apple.
I don't know... Zap apple trees aren't like normal apple trees. They're magic.
How different can they be?
Well if we can't buck 'em, let's just pick 'em!
Any other bright ideas?
Granny Smith, it's Miss Cheerilee! Apple Bloom said you wanted to speak with me?... Hello? Granny Smi–
[mimicking Granny Smith] Well hello there! Howdydoo!
Hi... uh... Granny Smith... is, ugh, everything okay?
[mimicking Granny Smith] Of course it is! Why wouldn't it be?
[mimicking Granny Smith] Oh, er, excuse me. Uh, pickles always give me the hiccups! I need to tell you that I can't make the presentation on Monday after all!
Oh no, is that so?
[mimicking Granny Smith] No doubts about it! I gotta shear the flowers and water the sheep! I mean, I have to water the flowers and shear the sheep!
Oh, well, that's too bad. We can reschedule.
E- whut- hai- where am I? Well, howdy, Miss Cheerilee! You window shopping?
Uh... no? You asked me to come here to tell me that you wouldn't be making it to Family Appreciation Day?
Fiddlesticks! I wouldn't miss it for all the tea in Canterlot!
But- didn't you just say...?
See you Monday!
[sighs] I can't believe she woke up from her nap. She never wakes up from her nap! [muffled] I wish I could just run off and hide!
Well, you can't run off... but maybe somepony else can!
Yee-haw!
The zap apple harvest has begun!
And tomorrow we will be makin' up some zap apple jam!
[in deeper voice] Miss Granny Smith? Telegram.
Well, bust my buttons. Uncle Apple Strudel wants me to pay him a visit.
And you can just make the 8AM train. I already packed you a bag!
Well, that was considerate.
But don't you worry, flibbertigibbet! I'll be back in time to make that jam!
[sighs] That train ride takes all day. I'm safe. Hah.
For today's Family Appreciation Day, we are pleased to welcome Granny Smith. Um... Apple Bloom? Is Granny Smith here?
Oh, I'm sorry, Miss Cheerilee, but she got called out of town on account of a family emergency–
Well, howdy, my little ponies!
Howdy, y'all! I'm as happy as a pig in a fresh mudpile to be here!
Whuh- what are you doing here? Did you miss the train?
Er, no, it came. And Uncle Apple Strudel was on it.
I can't wait to hear Granny Smith's presentation. [hushed] If she can remember any of it.
Long ago, when I was a little pony, things were very different here in Ponyville, 'cause there was no Ponyville!
[voiceover] That's right, my little ponies. Me and my family were pilgrim pony folk, back when I was a little filly. Oh, we ventured far and wide, collecting new seeds and sellin' the old. But my pa was the finest seed collector in all of Equestria. Then, one day, the Smith family found themselves in the most brilliant, most grand, most magnificent of all cities. A place called... Canterlot. Well, I bet your hooves to hindquarters I had never seen anything like it before nor since. And as if the beauty of that city wasn't enough, suddenly, she appeared. Princess Celestia, the most regal of all ponies. When lo and behold, she stopped to look at my pa's seed collection. Then Princess Celestia saw that we were plumb-tuckered and hankerin' to find our forever home. And bein' a royal Princess and all, she knew exactly the place for us to lay down our stakes. My pa gave the Princess a mighty thanks. We quickly found that land near the Everfree Forest, and we built our first home. Next, we planted our first orchards. But an orchard don't grow overnight, and we were getting mighty short on food. Now mind you, we were cautioned about the forest, and we knew that it was not fit to enter.
[voiceover] But I knew there was critters livin' there. There must be somethin' to eat. It was dark and musty, and I won't lie, it was scary. But every inch was covered in plant life, and before I knew it, wasn't I standin' in front of the most incredible apple trees! I had never seen anything that bore this kind of colorful fruit! Oh I started picking apples quick as a whip!
[voiceover] I turned, and there before me stood the timberwolves! I've never run so fast in my life. I did the only thing I could think of.
[voiceover] My pa and I planted those special apple seeds, and before our eyes they grew like wildfire. Why, we had full grown trees faster than you could say 'lickety split'. Then each year, I paid close attention to the signs of the zap apples' special harvesting times. How the weather affects the Everfree Forest, how the timberwolves howl when the zap apples first start growing, and how they zapped away if you didn't pick 'em all in one day! And the fruits of our labor were the best fruit we ever tasted. Soon enough I was mixing up batches of zap apple jam. Just like harvestin' the zap apples had its special rules, so did makin' zap apple jam. I learned that you gotta be extra friendly with the bees, otherwise their honey won't taste rightly sweet to mix in with the zap apples. Who'd'a thought that glass jars needed talkin' to? Or that zap apples like pink polka dots? But magic is as magic does. Just funny that way. Then ponies started comin' to our farm from far and wide just to get a taste of my zap apple jam. Some of them decided to stay, like Stinkin' Rich, Diamond Tiara's great grandfather. Matter of fact, the first thing he ever sold was my zap apple jam.
[voiceover] And before we knew it, we had ourselves a nice little town, bustling with all kinds of ponies. And that is how Ponyville was founded.
Oh, thank you kindly, little ponies. Oh, now now, let's settle down.
So if it weren't for you and the zap apples, Ponyville wouldn't even exist?!
Darn tootin', little filly!
If it weren't for my Granny Smith, your daddy wouldn't have Barnyard Bargains.
But–
But she's just a... kooky old lady!
She is not a kooky old lady! She is the most amazing pony in all of Ponyville!
I think this is the best zap apple jam I've tasted yet!
Must be 'cause you had something to do with it, Apple Bloom.
You betcha. Apple Bloom is one humdinger of a zap apple jammer!
I am?
So I take it Family Appreciation Day went well?
Did it? My Granny Smith is super special! I just forgot that for a little while.
Aw, don't fret. I forget things all the time. Now, I'll getcha... er... somethin'. Aw.
Who wants to help Granny sing to the water?
We do, we do!
Diamond Tiara?
But dad!
Can you believe the new baby is finally here?
Cup Cake and Carrot Cake must be so proud!
I wonder if it's a filly or a colt?
I wanna see the new baby pony! I wanna see! Which one is it?!
Mr. Meet our son, Pound Cake.
Awwww.
Mr. ...and our daughter, Pumpkin Cake.
Huh?
Two new foals for me to play with? [gasps] That's two, two, two times the fun! This is the greatest day ever! We need to celebrate your birthday, babies, 'cause you were just born today! Woo-hoo!
Shhh. The babies are trying to sleep.
But I was just–
Shhh.
But–
Shhh!
[quieter] Happy happy birthday to you and you today–
Now how in thunderation is one of them twins a Pegasus and the other one a unicorn?
Mr. Easy. My great-great-great-great grandfather was a unicorn, and Cup Cake's great aunt's second cousin twice removed was a Pegasus. That makes sense, right?
Aw, yeah! Heh, just you wait! Once little Pound Cake there gets his wings going, he'll be all over the place.
And be careful around Pumpkin Cake.
Baby unicorns get strange magic surges that come and go.
Quick! Make a wish and blow out your candles! Which is easy, 'cause there are zero candles! You are zero years old, after all!
Shhh!
Happy month-i-versary to you and you today! [very quickly] I-can't-believe-you're-already-a-month-old. Time-sure-flies-doesn't-it-wow. Seems-like-only yesterday-you-were-born. But now you're a month old today, hey!
Are you ready for your favoritest game in the whole wide world? Where's Pinkie Pie...? Here I am! Where's Pinkie Pie...? Here I am! Where's Pinkie Pie...? Here I am!
Mrs. Everything okay in there? Who needs a diaper change?
Don't worry, they're fine! [sniffs] Oogh, I mean...
Mr. Oh, I got it.
Mr. Is anypony hungry?
Ah, no thanks. I just had a big breakfast.
Mrs. I'm on it.
Oh, oh, you're making funny faces! I have one! Bleghhh!
Mr. [chuckles] No, y'see, Pinkie, the babies need to be burped.
All set now? Everything good? Okay, who wants to play again?
Mrs. Uh uh uh, Pound Cake, no pounding things.
Mr. Uh uh uh uh, we don't chew on things, Pumpkin Cake.
Except food.
Mrs. [gasps] Food! Great cinnamon sticks, I completely forgot.
No, you just fed them bottles, remember?
Mrs. Not the babies' food!
Mr. Gh! The food for the enormously big catering order we have to deliver today!
Mrs. Oh, with the new twins, we've been so distracted!
Mr. Gh, quick, honeybun, we need to find a babysitter to watch the foals while we take care of this.
I could do it! I wanna do it! Oh, the babies love playing with me, I'll do it!
Mrs. I wonder who would be available on such short notice.
Me! Me! Pick me!
Oh, I would love to babysit! But I can't today, sorry. I promised Angel we'd go on a picnic. You understand, don't you? Y-you're not mad at me, are you? Please don't be mad at me!
I'll do it! Pick me!
I have to finish this report for the Princess summarizing all my other reports to the Princess.
I wanna babysit! Pick me!
Babysit? Now? When there's a swarm o' hungry caterpillars headin' this way? I gotta get all these apples picked before they get swarmed on!
Ooh, ooh, I wanna do it!
I got tickets to the Wonderbolts airshow this afternoon. Gotta dash!
Ask me! Mememememememememememememe!
Moi? Babysit? N- Oh nonononononononono! I'm flattered that you would think about me though.
Mr. [groans] [unenthusiastically] Pinkie Pie, how would you like to babysit for us?
[gasps] I dunno. I'll have to check my schedule.
Mr. Now, Pinkie, are you sure you really understand the responsibility of watching over two babies?
I can be responsible. Why, responsibility is my middle name. Pinkie Responsibility Pie.
Mrs. But this time you need to take care of them, not just play with them. You have to be responsible.
Yes, I know. I will. I am.
Mrs. Oh, here you are, dearie. All your responsibilities are on this list.
Whoa! That's a lot of responsi– Consider it done.
Mr. [to Mrs. Cake] We'll frost it when we get there! C'mon, sugarplum, tick-tick!
Mrs. Take good care of our two precious little ginger snaps!
No problemo, Mr. and Mrs. Cake. Everything is under control.
Uh-oh.
Oh, don't cry, little friends! Look, look! Where's Pinkie Pie...? Where's Pinkie Pie?
Oh no... I'm right here, see?
Oh, think think think... Aha!
Hey guys, watch this!
Hey, you're a wonderful crowd here tonight! Where y'all from? Wow, that's great. Y'know, I used to have an ant farm, but I had to get rid of it because... I couldn't find tractors that small!
Get it? Tractors that small? [pause] The other day, I spilled spot remover on my dog... and now I can't find him!
Gee, tough crowd. [to herself] Tell me about it. Fine, I wasn't gonna pull off a show stopper, but you're a lovely audience and I think you deserve it!
First you jiggle your tail! Oink oink oink! Then you wriggle your snout! Oink oink oink! Then you wiggle your rump! Oink oink oink! Then shout it out! Oink oink oink!
First you jiggle your tail! Oink oink oink! Then you wriggle your snout! Oink oink oink! Then you wiggle your rump! Oink oink oink! Then shout it out! Oink oink oink!
First you jiggle your tail! Oink oink oink! Then you wriggle your snout! Oink oink oink! Then you wiggle your rump! Oink oink oink! Then shout it out! Oink oink oink!
There, see? Nothing to this babysitting business! Ugh!
Snack time. That's easy enough. Okie-dokie! Eat up! Like this! Num-num-num, num-num-num-num! Ahh!
Nom-
No, Pumpkin Cake, we eat food, not tablecloths.
Huh, huh? Uh, hey, guys, look at me!
Achoo!
Towels are not food, Pumpkin Cake!
Drop it... Drop it... Drop it!?
Uh, uh, uh, uh, don't cry! Look, look, uh, floating things! Ooh, aaah, eeh!
Uh, don't make me do it, guys! You know what happens when you mix flour and water, don't you?
[sniffs] [gasps] [hoof on nose] Smells like somepony needs me to changy-wangy their diaper-wiper right now-a-wow! [tiptoeing noise] Easy... easy...
Wait- no- stay there- just- for a second- stand still, I've almost-
Oh, you've gotta be kidding me.
Oh! Thank goodness they're home!
Hi! I finished up the work I had to do, so I thought I'd stop by and see if you needed any help. Whoa!
Thank you, thank you, thank you for coming! I can't begin to tell you what my day has been like! I mean, these babies just won't listen to reason, and don't even get me started on their taste in stand-up comedy.
It's okay, Pinkie. I figured you would need some help. That's why I stopped by.
Ex-cuse me?
Babies take a lot of work, and some ponies are just not cut out to handle the responsibility.
Is that so? Well, thanks for stopping by, Twilight. Sorry, I don't have time to visit. I'm very very busy with my responsibilities here.
I'm happy to help! It's no trouble–
Well, of all the– She thinks I can't handle things on my own! Maybe because I haven't handled things on my own. Well, I can handle things on my own!
Pound Cake. [growls] This is a crib. It is only to be used for napping, sleeping, and on occasion with permission, as a pretend old-timey Western fort. It is not a trampoline, so stop your jumping right now, mister!
And you, young filly. We do not put anything in our mouth that we cannot safely and properly digest, so stop slobbering on that toy this instant!
Now, we've all had a very exhausting afternoon, and it's time for all good little foals to take their nap. So, fall asleep!
[sighs] [kisses twice] Sleep tight.
Oh, nononono. Not good, not good, not good! Pound? Pumpkin? Where are you? Come out, come out, wherever you are!
Whoa! You be a good little girl now, Pumpkin-wumpkin, and stay in your crib for your pal Pinkie-winkie!
Pound Cake? [clicks] Here, Pound Cake!
Uh, Pound Cake? Uh...
[squeals] You can fly?!
Oh... get down here... this instant... young... colt! [gasps for breath] I'm responsible for you!
[giggles] Nom nom nom.
No no no, Pumpkin.
Nom nom.
No no.
Nom.
No. Hmph! I am the responsible one, and I said no.
Wheeee!
That goes for you too, Pound Cake!
Mm, razzleberry. I'm- not- letting- go! I'm- re-spon-si-ble!
Oh, not you too! There! Now who's the responsible one?
[giggles] Y'know, you're right. That is funny.
Dear Princess Celestia,
I've always had fun playing with little kids, and I thought babysitting meant just more playtime, right? Wrong! Being a caregiver is way more responsibility than just being a playmate. And today, I learned that sometimes our desire for responsibility can outrun our actual ability to handle it.
Mr. Pinkie Pie! We're back!
Mr. Are we in the right place?
Shhh!
Mrs. P-Pinkie. This is just... just...
Mr. Amazing is what it is. We had no idea how responsible you really are. Would you be interested in becoming our go-to babysitter on a permanent basis?
[gasps] Hm- Ah- lemme check my schedule! I should be available a week from... never!
Pinkie...
Pie...
[happily gasps] I have some free time next Tuesday.
Whoo-- Whoa! Whoo-hoo! Applejack, you're sure to knock everypony's hat off at the Equestria Rodeo competition!
Aw shucks, Apple Bloom. I sure hope so.
Hope so? I know so! After all, you're the ten-time rodeo champeen of Ponyville! Why, you've got more blue ribbons than anypony in Ponyville ever! And I can't wait for my big sis to win every blue ribbon in Equestria and bring home the title of Equestria Rodeo champeen!
Huh? Now, careful, Derpy! Don't want to do any more damage than you've already done.
I just don't know what went wrong.
Yeah. It's a mystery.
Nice work, Rainbow Dash.
You okay, Rainbow Dash? Anything I can do to help?
No! Nothing! In the name of Celestia, just sit there and do nothing!
Oops. My bad.
Everypony, can I get your attention? Attention please!
Yes, we are all here to send Applejack to compete in this year's Equestria Rodeo competition in Canterlot.
And I want to thank Applejack in advance for generously offering up her prize money to fix town hall.
Yeah, Applejack! Whoo-hoo!
Speech! Speech!
Oh, shucks. I'm not much for speeches.
Alright then, no speech!
Buuut! This here is the nicest send off anypony could ask for. Y'all have been cheering me on in every rodeo since I was a little little pony. So it seems only fittin' to use my winnings to fix up town hall. I promise to make Ponyville proud.
I want you to show all them highfalutin rodeo ponies what a real rodeo pony's like!
You betcha, Granny Smith.
And bring back all that money!
You betcha, Mayor.
Just do your best, Applejack.
I'll do better than my best!
The train to Canterlot is about to leave! All aboard who's coming aboard!
Guess that means me.
Seeya in a week!
With lots of new blue ribbons!
And lots of money!
Darn tootin'! See y'all in a week, with a big bag full of blue ribbons!
And drink sarsaparilla! What? It gives you extra sass.
Oh, I hope Applejack is surprised by this surprise party!
Well, that is the point.
I know, but I hope she isn't so surprised she's startled, because while being surprised can be nice, being startled can be... very startling.
Surprise!
[gasps] Oh, Pinkie, you startled me.
Sorry! I was just practicing my "surprise!" for when we surprise Applejack with this super cool party for becoming rodeo champeen of Equestria! Surprise!
Quiet, Pinkie, I think Applejack's coming!
Surprise!
Surprise! Shoot!
Wow, this is the best surprise ever! How did you know it was my birthday?
Who's it from, Twilight? What's it say?
It's from Applejack. "Family and friends, not coming back to Ponyville."
"...Don't worry, will send money soon." That's all there is.
Applejack's... not comin' back?
What do you mean Applejack's not coming back?! She loves Ponyville!
And she loves Sweet Apple Acres!
And she loves her family!
[gasps] Something just dreadful must have happened to Applejack to make her not return!
Maybe she's hurt, or sad, or scared!
So, what are we waiting for? Let's go find her!
Don't worry. We'll search all of Equestria if we have to. We'll bring her back.
Y'all are the best.
Thank you, girls! [to Big McIntosh] Our little bushel just lost one apple.
I hope this lead doesn't turn out to be a dead end. I don't wanna go home empty-hooved after promising we'd find her.
I don't know how we'll break it to the Apple family.
I don't know how we'll break it to Ponyville!
I don't know how I'll make it to the next stop!
This is Dodge Junction, girls. Applejack is supposed to have come here after the rodeo ended. Let's fan out and try to find her.
Ooh, pickles! [knocking] Hurryhurryhurryhurryhurry! Hurry it up in there!
Huh, some ponies. Sheesh.
Applejack! I found her, I found her, I found her, I found her, I found her!
Oh, Applejack, thank heavens!
We're so glad you're safe!
I found her, I found her, I found her, I found her! Be right back.
Uh, hey, everypony. What's up?
Why didn't you come back to Ponyville?!
Yes, why are you here?
Are you okay?
Do you have any snacks?
Tell us what happened, Applejack!
Applejack? Are these some of your Ponyville friends?
Yes, ma'am.
And you are?
Why, I'm Cherry Jubilee, boss of Cherry Hill Ranch. Hasn't Applejack told ya? I saw her compete at the Equestria Rodeo. Never saw anypony win so many ribbons in all my life.
Aw shucks, Miss Jubilee. You don't have to go into all that.
Oh, she's so modest. Anyway, I can always use a pony with quick hooves and a strong back. So, when I heard Applejack was looking for a change of scenery, I snapped her up as quick as I could and brought her to Dodge Junction. Well, I'll let you catch up with your friends. See you back at the ranch.
"Change of scenery"? What's that supposed to mean?
S'no big deal, guys. I thought cherries would be a nice change from apples, so I took the job and came here. That's it. End of story.
That's it? Well, that's a terrible story!
Sorry, but that's all there is to tell. Thanks for checkin' on me, but y'all can go home now. Tell my family hi, and that I'm doing a-okay.
Excuse me, AJ, but we didn't travel all over Equestria searching for you to come home without you!
Well, I didn't ask you to come lookin' for me! There is nothin' to tell and I am not going back to Ponyville!
I don't care what she says. Applejack's not telling us something.
Twilight's right. We gotta get her to spill the beans.
What?! She had beans? Ugh, I told her I was snacky!
You ready to put your back into it, Applejack?
Sure am, Miss Jubilee.
Terr-ific. Come on in, girls!
What are you all doing here?
We're your cherry sorters. Shall we get started?
Fine.
Haha, red cherries go in one bin, and yellow cherries go in the other. Simple as cherry pie. Uh, just one teensy thing to remember – have fun!
What are you five up to?
Well, uh, you made working on a cherry orchard sound... so delightful.
Uh-huh. Well, just remember: No talking about Ponyville.
Fine! Why don't you quit talking and get walking?
So, AJ, how was Canterlot? Not talking about Ponyville, talking about Canterlot, totally different town.
Canterlot was fine.
Was the rodeo fun?
Yes.
Did you meet some nice ponies there?
Some.
Really? Did you see Wild Bull Hickok? What about Calamity Mane?
Yes, I saw 'em both.
And how did you meet Miss Jubilee?
Um, well, Miss Jubilee had a cherry stand at the rodeo. Real good treats.
Um, excuse me?
Cherry winks, cherry cheesecake, cherry tarts. We struck up a conversation, being orchard folk and all.
So you told her about Sweet Apple Acres?
Yes.
Did you tell her why you weren't going back?
No, 'cuz it was none of her business!
Ooh... Can you please slow down?
Is it because I made it rain on you that one time?
No!
Help!
Is it because you were insulted when I gave you that book on organized orchards?
NO!
Is it because you were insulted when I insulted your hair?
No, no, NO! I'm not telling you why, so just–
STOP!
Well, girls, we seem to be striking out.
That's 'cause we're playing too nice.
Yes. Desperate times do call for desperate measures.
It's time to call in the big guns.
Hey, Applejack. Need some help?
You promise not to ask me any questions?
I promise.
Have you ever had a cherrychanga? Ooh! Sorry, that was a question.
That kind of question is fine, Pinkie. No, I-I never had a cherrychanga.
Well, no wonder, because I made it up myself! A cherrychanga is mashed up cherries in a tortilla that's deep fried. Cherrychanga. Great name, huh? Oh, but maybe I should call it a chimicherry. Ooh, that's good too. Which do you think sounds better? Cherrychanga or chimicherry? Or what if I combine them? Chimicherrychanga! What sounds the funniest? I like funny words! One of my favorite funny words is 'kumquat'! I didn't make that one up. I would work in a kumquat orchard just so I could say 'kumquat' all day! Kumquat, kumquat, kumquat! And 'pickle barrel'! Isn't that just the funnest thing to say? Pickle barrel, pickle barrel, pickle barrel! Say it with me! Pickle barrel, kumquat, pickle barrel, kumquat, pickle barrel, kumquat, chimicherrychanga!
No! Make it stop, make it stop!
The only way to make it stop is for you to spill the beans!
Never!
Alright, alright! I'll tell everypony what's goin' on! Just please stop talkin'! But... can it wait 'til tomorrow at breakfast? I'm plum tuckered out.
Tomorrow, huh? I don't know...
Do you Pinkie promise?
[sighs] I will tell you the whole truth at breakfast. Pinkie promise.
I'm glad we're finally gonna get some answers from Applejack.
Yeah, maybe.
Don't worry, Rainbow. She's gotta 'fess up after making a Pinkie promise.
Nopony breaks a Pinkie promise!
Applejack! [slightly distorted] You Pinkie promised!
Applejack, come back here!
Giddy up, fellas, I gotta get the heck out of Dodge!
She's gonna get away!
Oh no, she won't! Look, girls!
Follow that stagecoach! Oh, we have you now!
Whoa! What the hay?
Pull over!
Hey! Cut that out! Whoa! [to coach ponies] I'll pay you double to outrun them.
We'll pay you triple to slow down!
I'll pay you quadruple to leave them in the dust!
That was rude!
Get them! Get them!
Come on, Fluttershy!
Hyah! C'mon, y'all! Go, go!
Applejack, you broke your Pinkie promise! Apologize!
Pinkie, I did not break my promise!
Wha?
If y'all reckon back, I told you that I would tell you everything at breakfast. But I didn't come for breakfast. I couldn't come to that breakfast, not if it meant telling y'all what happened.
Well, I... I...
I'm sorry, Pinkie, but I can't tell y'all the truth. I just can't!
Well I heard a "sorry" in there, so that'll have to do for now. I'll get a real apology later. Rarity, catch me.
Rainbow, go back!
No time! They knew what they were getting into!
Yes. Hyah!
Yee-haw!
[in unison] Lady, you're trouble.
Ha, try and catch me now. Oh, nuts.
Not so fast!
Fine. Now you know.
Know what?
Well, just look!
I am. You won an amazing number of ribbons, just like Miss Jubilee said!
Don't you get it? There's every color of ribbon down there. Every color... but... blue. I came in fourth, third, even second, but I didn't win one first prize, and I certainly didn't win any prize money.
But the telegram said you were gonna send money.
That's why I came here. I wanted to earn some money. After that big old send off Ponyville gave me, I just didn't have the nerve to come home empty-hooved. I couldn't come home a failure.
Applejack, you're not a failure.
And we're your friends! We don't care if you came in fiftieth place! You're still number one in our books.
So... you're not upset or disappointed?
Fluttershy, Nn-nn.
But what about the mayor? I don't think I can face her and tell her I didn't get that money to fix the broken roof.
Applejack, we can always find a way to fix that hole in the roof. But if you don't come back, we'll never be able to fix the hole in our hearts.
[sniffles] Darn it! Now you got me acting all sappy!
Dear Princess Celestia,
It's a tad easier to be proud when you come in first than it is when you finish further back. But there's no reason to hide when you don't do as well as you'd hoped. You can't run away from your problems. Better to run to your friends and family.
[yawns] Who could that be? It's still dark!
C'mon, Fluttershy! Cider season's about to start!
[squee] [shrieks] Oh, where are we? What's the rush?
The rush? Don't you remember what happened last year? Or the year before that? Or pretty much any cider season ever?
Um, well, uh–
Pinkie Pie. She always ends up ahead of us in line, and then they always run out of cider!
I guess I–
Gee, Rainbow Dash. It looks like a few other ponies had the same idea.
Oh, gosh, Pinkie. I love your new style.
Who are all these ponies?!
Isn't this great? I couldn't sleep last night 'cause I was so excited about cider season, and I had this brilliant idea to come down here and camp out, so I told a few others about it, and they all thought it was a great idea too, and now it's just a big old cider party! Woo-hoo! Oh, gosh, that's a lot of ponies. Hope they don't run out before you get any.
Isn't this exciting, Spike? Opening day of cider season!
Yeah! That means it's only thirty more days 'til sapphire season!
[through megaphone] Attention, everypony! Cider season is now officially open!
Heh. Sorry, everypony! That's it for today!
Awww.
Surprise, surprise. You ran out again!
Yeah, you always run out!
For the record, I don't mind–
Why can't you make enough cider for all of us? Or at least for me!
Hold on, everypony. We've done our best to improve supply this year-
You always say that!
And it's always true. But Apple family cider is made with love and integrity, and only the highest quality apples in Equestria. Sorry, but that recipe takes time.
If y'all just be patient, we'll have plenty more tomorrow.
She's right, y'know! You can't rush perfection! And this year's batch was perfection!
Uh, Pinkie Pie–
What in Equestria is that?
Well, lookie what we got here, brother of mine, it's the same in every town Ponies with thirsty throats, dry tongues, and not a drop of cider to be found Maybe they're not aware that there's really no need for this teary despair
That the key that they need to solve this sad cider shortage you and I will share
Well you've got opportunity In this very community
He's Flim
He's Flam
We're the world famous Flim Flam Brothers Traveling salesponies nonpareil
Nonpa-what?
Nonpareil, and that's exactly the reason why, you see No pony else in this whole place will give you such a chance to be where you need to be And that's a new world, with tons of cider Fresh squeezed and ready for drinking
More cider than you could drink in all your days of thinking
I doubt that.
So take this opportunity
[Flim, Flam, and Crowd] In this very community
He's Flim
He's Flam
We're the world famous Flim Flam Brothers Traveling salesponies
[Flim, Flam, and Crowd] Nonpareil
I suppose by now you're wondering 'bout our peculiar mode of transport
I say, our mode of locomotion
And I suppose by now you're wondering, where is this promised cider?
Any horse can make a claim and any pony can do the same
But my brother and I have something most unique and superb Unseen at any time in this big new world
And that's opportunity
Folks, it's the one and only, the biggest and the best
The unbelievable
Unimpeachable
Indispensable
I-can't-believe-able
Flim Flam Brothers' Super Speedy Cider Squeezy 6000
What d'you say, sister?
Oh, we got opportunity In this very community Please, Flim, please, Flam, help us out of this jam With your Flim Flam Brothers' Super Speedy Cider Squeezy 6000
Young filly, I would be ever so honored if you might see fit to let my brother and I borrow some of your delicious, and might I add spellbindingly fragrant apples for our little demonstration here?
Uh, sure, I guess.
Opportunity, in our community
Ready, Flim?
Ready, Flam?
Let's bing bang zam!
And show these thirsty ponies a world of delectable cider!
Watch closely, my friends!
The fun begins!
Now, here's where the magic happens. Right here in this heaving, roiling, cider-press-boiling guts of the very machine, those apples plucked fresh are right now as we speak being turned into grade-A, top-notch, five-star, blow-your-horseshoes-off, one-of-a-kind cider!
Feel free to take a sneak peek!
Now wait, you fellers, hold it! You went and over-sold it! I guarantee that what you have there won't compare For the very most important ingredient Can't be added or done expedient And it's quality, friends, Apple Acres' quality and care!
Well, Granny, I'm glad you brought that up, my dear, I say I'm glad you brought that up You see that we are very picky when it comes to cider if you'll kindly try a cup
Yes, sir, yes, ma'am, this great machine lets just the very best  So whaddaya say then, Apples?  Care to step into the modern world And put the Super Speedy Cider Squeezy 6000 to the test?
What do you think, folks? Do you see what the Apples can't? I see it clear as day! I know she does! So does he! C'mon, Ponyville, you know what I'm talking about!
We're saying you've got
[Flim, Flam, and Crowd] Opportunity In this very community He's Flim, he's Flam We're the world famous Flim Flam Brothers Traveling salesponies nonpareil!
Yeah!
You got a deal!
Not so fast! No way no how that machine matches up with the care we put in our cider!
But if it really does work, we could make everypony in town happy!
I just don't know, y'all. We've always made cider the same way.
Eeyup. Huh?
We'll sweeten the deal. You supply the apples...
...We supply the Super Speedy Cider Squeezy 6000.
Then we split those sweet sweet profits...
...Seventy-five...
...Twenty-five.
Deal–
Hold on. Who gets the seventy five?
Why, us, naturally.
And, we'll throw in the magic to power the machine for free.
Cider sales keep our business afloat through the winter. We'd lose Sweet Apple Acres if we agreed to this.
So? What'll it be?
No deal.
Hmph. Very well. If you refuse our generous offer to be partners, then we'll just have to be competitors.
You wouldn't dare.
Oh no?
Don't you worry, everypony! There'll be plenty of cider for all of you!
[quietly] Once we drive Sweet Apple Acres out of business.
What?
Still worried about Flim and Flam?
Granny Smith says they were just blowing hot air.
I'm not so sure. They sounded mighty serious when they threatened to run us out of business.
That's it! Last cup!
Oh, for Pete's sake!
C'mon back tomorrow, everypony!
What seems to be the problem here?
Oh my, oh my, out of cider again?
What have we here? Who'd like a cup?
Don't worry, everypony, we've got the Super Speedy Cider Squeezy 6000 to make more in an instant!
You can't sell that cider! That's made from Apple family apples!
Is this some kind of cruel joke?
Don't worry, everypony, there are plenty of apples in Equestria. We'll find some others and make more cider than all of Ponyville can drink!
We'll make more cider than you could ever imagine!
Now, it ain't about the speed, young'un, it's about quality.
Who cares how good the cider is if I never get to drink any?
Oh, look at these poor, dissatisfied ponies.
Ponyville is Sweet Apple Cider country!
Our cider speaks for itself!
Let's put it to the test!
Anywhere, anytime!
Well, that's enough now.
With our machine, we can make enough cider in one hour to satisfy this entire town!
We'll do it in 45 minutes!
Easy, Apple Bloom, easy.
What's the matter, Granny Smith? Chicken?
What did you call me, sonny?
If you're so confident in your cider, then what's the problem?
Tomorrow mornin', right here!
But I'm afraid we haven't any... [spits] ...apples.
You can use our south field! It'll be worth it to teach y'all a thing or two about cider making!
Excellent; we have a bet. Whoever produces the most barrels in one hour wins the exclusive right to sell cider in Ponyville.
And after we beat ya, I don't never want to see you bambahoozlers around here again!
Until tomorrow.
Don't worry, Applejack, I know you'll win tomorrow!
We'd better, 'cause if we don't, we're gonna lose our farm.
Applejack? Are you sure this is such a good idea?
Me 'n' the family are... one hundred percent confident... in our cider making capabilities.
And besides, nopony calls Granny a chicken.
[through megaphone] Attention, everypony!
Well, good luck.
Thanks, Twilight. We'll need it.
[through megaphone] The teams have one hour to produce as much cider as they can, after which the barrels will be counted and the winner will be named the sole cider provider for all of Ponyville!
Are both teams ready?
Ready!
Ready!
Then let's... go!
Ugh, bad 'un. Good 'un! Bad 'un...
Great job, y'all! We've already filled an entire barrel!
I'll bet you those guys don't even have–
What?!
C'mon, Apple Bloom, focus! We gotta forget those guys if we're gonna have a chance of winnin'!
Sorry, sis! Better keep up, Granny, we're fallin' behind!
Egh... [sniffs] Good 'un... Ugh, bad 'un...
Rest when it's over, Big McIntosh! Ride! Ride!
This is just dreadful. Even at top speed the Apples are only making one barrel to the twins' three!
Um, Miss Mayor! Are honorary family members allowed to help in the competition?
Well, I'm not sure... Flim, Flam, would you object to honorary family members helping?
Are you kidding?
We don't care if the whole kingdom of Canterlot helps. It's a lost cause.
Hm, I guess it's okay. Applejack? What do you think?
I think I'd love to have the rest of my family helpin' out.
All right!
Okay, everypony, we're not gonna let those smooth talkers take our friend's farm.
Yeah!
Fluttershy, help Applejack with the trees.
Got it.
Pinkie Pie, you're on apple catching detail.
Yessir, ma'am, sir!
Rarity, you've got a discerning eye. Help Granny Smith at the quality control station.
Of course.
Rainbow Dash, do you think you can help Big McIntosh press?
In my sleep!
Alright, everypony, let's save Sweet Apple Acres!
All right!
Over there, Apple Bloom! Don't miss them!
Right behind you, Pinkie Pie!
Good 'un, bad 'un, bad 'un, good 'un...
Lovely, horrid, horrid, lovely...
Based on these figures, we're making five barrels for every three of theirs!
Keep it up, everypony! We're back in this!
[spits] Come on, brother, we've gotta pick up the pace!
Right, uh, double the power!
We've gotta try something else!
I've got it, brother of mine.
Well done, Flam! We're at top productivity!
C'mon, Rainbow Dash, keep grinding!
We don't have time for quality control if we wanna win this thing!
[yelps] Get back, you! One bad apple spoils the bunch!
Applejack, help me!
There's no point in winnin' if we cheat!
We'll just have to work harder! C'mon, everypony!
All right then, double time!
Time's up!
I'm proud of you, Applejack.
Integrity like that will always be... rewarded.
Flim and Flam win!
Wh, wh–
We... lost?
Daww, too bad, Apples.
Guess you'll just have to find a new line of work that doesn't match your names quite so... perfectly.
Now should we tear down all these tacky old buildings and put up new ones, brother?
I don't see why not, brother. After all, this isn't Sweet Apple Acres anymore. How about 'Flim Flam Fields'?
I ought to press you into jerk cider!
No, Rainbow Dash. A deal's a deal.
Congratulations to y'all. The cider business in Ponyville... is yours. C'mon, Apples. Let's go pack up our things.
Fear not, everypony, there's more than enough cider to go around.
Go ahead, everypony. Go on, y'all. It's okay.
Drink up, Ponyville! Down the hatch!
I can't get the taste off my tongue!
Mine's got rocks in it!
I wouldn't pay one cent for this dreck!
You wouldn't pay even one cent?
No!
How about two cups for one cent?
No!
[mumbling to each other] Two bits for a barrel?
NO!
[nervous noises] It looks like we've encountered a slight... problem here in Ponyville.
Nopony wants our product. Next town?
Next town. Let's go, Flim!
Let's go, Flam!
They're gone.
That means Sweet Apple Acres is still in business!
Plus we can have high quality Apple family cider!
Because of this silly competition, we've made enough of our cider for the whole town!
Dear Princess Celestia,
I wanted to share my thoughts with you. [clears throat] I didn't learn anythin'! Ha! I was right all along! If you take your time to do things the right way, your work will speak for itself. Sure I could tell you I learned something about how my friends are always there to help me, and I can count on them no matter what, but truth is, I knew that already too.
Hey, Rarity. Hey, Pinkie Pie. What are you looking at?
Rainbow Dash! Isn't she the most daring devil? I mean, the most devilish darer? I mean—
She's dazzling!
Ooh, yeah, that's a good word. She's dazzling!
Oh no, oh no, oh no!
Ai yi yi yi yi!
Pinkie Pie, Oohh.
So much for dazzling.
[muffled] Is she gonna be okay?
[muffled] Oh, I'm so worried!
[muffled] Is her face gonna stay that way?
Awwww.
How is she, doctor?
She's going to be fine. Luckily she has friends like you who got her over here in a jiffy.
Huh, how long do I need to lie here? I've got things I need to do!
Well, that all depends on your recovery, but I'd say a few days minimum.
You guys have gotta get me out of here! I'm gonna climb the walls!
Ooh, just like a spider! [to Doctor Horse] Did the crash somehow give her super-duper spider powers?
Nnnno, nor did it give her amazing healing powers. She needs to stay in bed for a few days.
Few days? Might as well be a few months, or a few years!
It's not so bad, Rainbow Dash.
I bet the chow in here is hoof-lickin' good.
And the hospital gowns, they...match the curtains!
And look! You have a roommate!
What's this? 'Daring Do and the Quest for the Sapphire Stone'.
No thanks. I so don't read. I'm a world-class athlete. Reading's for eggheads like you, Twilight. Heh, no offense, but I am not reading. It's undeniably, unquestionably, uncool.
Is she serious? Who doesn't like to read a bang-up tale from time to time?
Why, a good book is almost as magnificent as silk pajamas on a Sunday morning, heh!
Reading is for everypony, Rainbow Dash!
Yeah! I love reading, and my head isn't even close to the shape of an egg! It's more the shape of an apple, or maybe an orange, but a big orange! More like a grapefruit really...
"Nurse Sweetheart": All right, my little ponies. Rainbow Dash needs her rest. You'll have to come back tomorrow.
I think you'd like Daring. She's a lot like you. Adventurous, fierce, and undeniably, unquestionably, unstoppable.
...to get to the other side! Get it? Never mind...
[sighs] [unenthusiastically] "As Daring Do trekked through the tropical jungle, the wet heat sapped her energy and slowed her every step. If only she could escape this oppressive atmosphere and fly up into the cool blue sky. But her crash landing in the jungle had injured her wing and she was grounded for a few days. Few days... it might as well be a few months, or a few years!" Huh. I'm right there with you, sister.
[voiceover] "The mosquitoes buzzed loudly. The macaws cried from the high trees. Yet all of these distracting noises were not enough to cover the sound of the predators following her every step."
[voiceover, steadily getting more excited] "Safely landing on the other side, Daring finally allowed herself a moment to breathe. She turned around to find herself face to face with the long lost temple that she had sought tirelessly for over sixty days and nights!"
I hate to admit it to myself, and would really hate to admit it to my friends, but... I love this story! I, I... I love reading! I'm an egghead.
[voiceover] "The smell of decay and danger hit Daring Do as she peered into the dimly-lit entrance of the ancient temple."
Phew!
Hi, Rainbow Dash!
Uh, hey, guys...
We thought we'd come and cheer you up!
We brought your favorite board game!
We know how much you like to win!
You go first, Rainbow Dash!
[short nervous laugh] No no, you first.
Alright, uh... cloud three.
Aw, shucks, you... rained on my cumulus, heh. Go again!
Um... sky five?
Whoa, you found my seagull.
Uh... cloud two?
But Rainbow Dash, you, you didn't even get a turn.
You win some, you lose some.
But you don't lose some. I don't think you've ever lost a game of—
[yawns] Thanks for coming!
But yesterday you were desperate for things to do!
Glad we could... cheer you up?
Alright then.
"Daring Do stood at the entrance to the central temple chamber."
[voiceover] "At last, she was face-to-face with the legendary sapphire statue!"
Hmm, there must be a pattern here. What do all these animals have in common? Ah-ha! These animals are all predators... except... rats! Phew!
Ahuizotl [with Pinkie Pie's voice]: Hello, Rainbow Dash!
How's our patient doing today?
Ugh, we need to get some fresh air in here. You're lookin' sweatier than a pig wrangler on a summer's day.
Uh, well, guys, thanks for visiting, but—
Okay, now, dinner time for Rainbow Dash.
Oh, just in time. I am sooo hungry.
Oh, well, don't mind us, Rainbow Dash.
Yeah, just go ahead and eat up.
Uh, on second thought—
Uh, we'll see you tomorrow, Rainbow Dash, aheh...
[spits] "'You thought you could evade me and capture the relic for yourself, but you are sadly mistaken, Miss Do.'"
Whoa! Who is this dude?
[pants] You won't get away with this, Ahuizotl!
But I already have.
[exasperated sigh] Not again...
[echoing] Rainbow Dash?
[muffled] Rainbow Dash? [normal] Rainbow Da-ash!
H— oh, good evening—
Morning.
—morning. Doc.
Have you been up all night?
Well, I'll be quick. Congratulations, Rainbow Dash, we're checking you out of the hospital.
No. Right now!
Right now?! 'Right now' right now?
'Right now' right now.
But I don't feel better!
Now take it easy, Rainbow Dash. Remember to stay off that wing for a week.
How will I ever find out what happens to Daring Do?!
Is Ahuizotl going to get away with the statuette? What's gonna happen to Daring?! Ah-ha! Twilight has a copy of the book! Uh, but I can't ask her after I called her an egghead and all...
Ugh, this is making me sick all over again!
Owww... [grunts in pain unrealistically] Oh, the pain... the pain!
Rainbow Dash! What are you doing here, a-anything wrong?
Well, uh, my wing! It's still hurtin', Doc. Oh, ouch! Right there.
I was touching your good wing.
Uh, right. Well, I think that one's hurting now too.
[chuckles] I think I know what the trouble is. A severe case of lazy-itis.
B-But, you got me all wrong, Doc! I'm not being lazy!
You're fine, Rainbow Dash. Give it some time and you'll be right back in the swing of things.
"Nurse Sweetheart": Good day, Rainbow Dash.
Take care!
What am I gonna do? I'll never get to sleep without knowing what happens to Daring Do! ...Which may not be such a bad thing...
Feels like the harder I struggle, [grunts] the tighter the ropes get!
Spider [with "Fuzzy Slippers"'s voice]: Help! Burglar, burglar!
"Fuzzy Slippers": Someone's trying to steal my slippers!
I'm not trying to steal your slippers, I'm trying to steal this book!
"Nurse Sweetheart": Stop, thief!
Hey, nopony invited me!
Huh! Hasn't anypony heard of beauty sleep?
Rainbow Dash, what in the world is going on? Why are you stealing slippers?
Hey, get back to the hospital!
What's all the ruckus?
Mmm, I'd say it's more of a fracas than a ruckus.
What's going on, Rainbow Dash?
[sighs] I'm an egghead.
Pardon?
See, I was trying to get back into the hospital to finish the last chapter of—
—'Daring Do and the Quest for the Sapphire Statue'!
You got me.
Wow, I knew the book was good, but I didn't know it could drive a pony to petty theft!
Good? Try awesomely amazing. That book is undeniably, unquestionably, un-put-down-able! But then I had to put it down; I was sent home before I could finish it.
Well, I'm glad that's all this is about.
There's no reason to go around causin' a ruckus—
Fracas!
...causin' a fracas just because you like to read.
Like I said, I have every book in the series, and you can borrow them all, any time you like!
Oh, thanks, Twilight. I'm sorry I made such a big deal about all of this. I thought reading was just for smart ponies like you.
Rainbow Dash, just because you're athletic doesn't mean you aren't smart!
Reading is something everypony can enjoy, if they just give it a try.
Yeah, I get it. I shouldn't knock something until I've tried it.
That's a great lesson, and it would make a great letter to the Princess.
[to Spike] Didja get all that?
Yeah?
[takes deep breaths] Another day, another dungeon!
I'll take that!
Huh? Wha—? Noooooooo!
Better luck next time, Ahuizotl!
[voiceover] "And so, with Ahuizotl defeated, and the sapphire statue secured..."
"...The world was safe and sound once again, thanks to Daring Do!" [sighs in admiration] 'Daring Do and the Griffon's Goblet'. Awesome!
Hmm... I just don't feel like it's quite finished.
I know what you mean. If it's for Miss Cheerilee, it needs to be perfect. Hearts and Hooves Day only comes once a year, after all.
I say we add a little more ribbon!
Mm-hmm, yeah, yeah. And just a tiny bit more lace.
A few more hoof-prints.
Glitter! It could definitely use just a little more glitter!
Now that'll show Miss Cheerilee how much we care about her. Just have to get it to the Hearts and Hooves party at school.
I think we're gonna need a bigger envelope.
I like the red ones.
It's lovely. And so... big!
We just wanted to let you know that we think you're the best teacher in the whole wide world! And we think you're super! And that we love you so so much! And we want you to have the best Hearts and Hooves Day–
Apple Bloom, Sweetie Belle, Ever!
Thank you so much, girls. I love it. I really do.
I'm sure it's nothing compared to the gifts you've gotten from your... very special somepony.
Oh, I don't have a very special somepony at the moment.
Really?
How could somepony as amazing as you not have a very special somepony on Hearts and Hooves Day?
It's alright, Sweetie Belle. I have lots of good friends and wonderful students who care about me very much. I'm gonna have an absolutely terrific Hearts and Hooves Day. Alright, everypony, who's ready to play "Pin the Heart on the Pony"?
If anypony deserves a very special somepony, it's her.
Uh, you all right?
I'm more than all right. I've just come up with the best idea ever. We're gonna find Miss Cheerilee a very special somepony.
That is the best idea ever.
[singsong voice] Tooold yooou!
So what are we waiting for? Hearts and Hooves Day is almost over! Let's get out there and find somepony special for Cheerilee already.
Yeah!
Let's do it!
Now it can't be just anypony. Miss Cheerilee is one of the best mares in Ponyville. She deserves to have one of the best stallions as her very special somepony.
Cheerilee is sweet and kind, She's the best teacher we could hope for. The perfect stallion you and I must find One to really make her heart so-o-oar. But... This one's too young, This one's too old. He clearly has a terrible cold.
"Hay Fever": Achoo!
This guy's too silly. He's way too uptight.
"Persnickety": I say!
Well nothing's wrong with this one, He seems alright...
His girlfriend sure thinks so.
How 'bout this one?
He's much too flashy.
He might do!
If he weren't so splashy!
Too short.
Too tall.
Too clean.
Too smelly.
Too strangely obsessed with tubs of jelly.
I don't think that we're mistaken, It seems all the good ones are taken.
I really feel that at this rate, We'll never find the perfect date.
[Apple Bloom, Scootaloo, and Sweetie Belle] Don't wanna quit and give up hope!
Doing anything special for Hearts and Hooves Day?
Oh please, oh please oh please say-
Nope.
We did it girls, We've found the one, Who will send our teacher's heart aflutter!
Wait a minute. Lemme get this straight. Are you talkin' 'bout my brother?
Sweetie Belle is right. Big McIntosh is the perfect match for Miss Cheerilee. He's really nice, super hard-working.
Hmm... but he's also pretty shy. He's never gonna ask Miss Cheerilee to be his very special somepony.
Maybe he doesn't have to.
Huh?
If we can get Big Mac and Miss Cheerilee in a really romantic setting, I bet she'll ask him.
Sounds like a plan to me.
So? What are we waitin' for? Let's get out there and create the perfect date!
Apple Bloom, Scootaloo, Yay!
Flowers. Don't forget the flowers.
Oops. I'm on it!
[gasp] They're coming! This is gonna be perfect. Miss Cheerilee is gonna have the best Hearts and Hooves Day ever.
With her new very special somepony.
Hi, girls.
Apple Bloom, Scootaloo, Hi, Miss Cheerilee.
So you three said you needed help identifying a tree you found here near the gazebo?
[dryly] That's an apple tree.
Is it?
Oh, sorry, big brother. We went and fixed up the gazebo all on our own. See?
As long as you're here, why not have a bite to eat from this romantic-looking picnic? Oh gosh, seems like there's only room for two.
I guess we'll just be goin' then.
You really think this'll work?
Of course it will work. They're perfect for each other.
Beautiful day we're having.
Eeyup.
Any big plans for tonight?
Nnnope.
Oh, come on, Miss Cheerilee, ask him to be your very special somepony.
[gasp] Ohmigosh, look.
Big Mac...
Eeyup?
You have something stuck in your teeth.
Aw, come on!
Well this has been... strange.
Eeyup.
I need to get going, but it's always great running into a good friend.
Yup.
[sigh] Do you think it just wasn't romantic enough?
Maybe it was too romantic.
[sigh] Either way, we failed.
[sigh] There's gotta be somethin' else we could– UGH!
Oh my goodness, I didn't even see you there. I'm so so sorry.
Aw, it's okay, Twilight. It was an accident.
I've just been reading the most fascinating book about Hearts and Hooves Day. Did you know that this holiday got its start because of a love potion?
Did you say... a love potion?
That's right. It even has the recipe.
I... don't suppose we could borrow that book for a little while, do ya?
Of course you can. I have another book here that I think you'll–
[giggling] Take a tuft of cloud;
A bright rainbow's glow;
Stir with a Pegasus feather–
Hey!
Fast, not slow.
Serve to two ponies who aren't in the know.
I feel kind of bad trickin' my brother and Miss Cheerilee this way.
What's the problem? We all agreed these two are perfect for one another.
Yeah, they just need a little nudge.
And what could make them happier than being together, right?
Right!
Oh, oh, here they come.
Hiya, Miss Cheerilee.
Hello again, girls. Hello, Big Mac. Would you three like to tell us why it was so very important that we meet you here–
Punch!
Excuse me?
Punch! We made punch. We were gonna set up a stand and try to sell it but, heh, we needed somepony to taste-test it first.
Yup.
I'm very sorry about this. I mentioned to the girls that I don't have a very special somepony, and I believe they're putting us in these awkward situations because they've decided it should be you.
I suppose we should just humor them for a moment. This punch does look delicious.
Eeyup.
I think they're gonna drink it.
To good friends!
They're drinking it. They're drinking it!
They're looking into each other's eyes.
Apple Bloom, Scootaloo, [giggling] They're about to be in for a big surprise!
Big Mac?
Yup?
Will you be my very special somepony?
Eeyup.
YES!
Apple Bloom, Scootaloo, [singsong voice] He's her special somepony! She's his special somepony!
He's my special somepony.
Eeeeeyup.
Apple Bloom, Scootaloo, Aww!
He's my shmoopy-doopy sweetie-weetie pony pie.
You're my shmoopy-doopy sweetie-weetie pony pie.
Did he just say–
You're my cutie-patootie lovie-dovie honey-bunny.
You're my heartie-smartie smoochie-woochie baby-waby.
Big Mac! Hey! Hello! What's going on?
Miss Cheerilee, are you alright?
I have a special somepony. A kissy-wissy snuggy-wuggy sugar bear.
I think we may have given them too big of a nudge.
You're my cuddly-wuddly boopsie-woopsie pumpkin pie.
Eugh!!
Ya think?
What have we done?! My brother's actin' like a grade-A goofball!
Maybe we added too much rainbow.
Or maybe not enough cloud.
Or maybe... uh-oh.
Whaddaya mean, "uh-oh?!"
We might not have given Big Mac and Miss Cheerilee a love potion. We may have given them a love poison.
What?!
Apparently, some prince a long time ago whipped up this recipe and gave it to this princess he liked. He meant it to be a love potion, but things didn't turn out so well.
How "not so well" did things turn out?
Well, there's something here about a dragon, the kingdom falling, chaos reigning... Okay, apparently it was all because the prince and princess were so lost in each other's eyes that they couldn't perform their royal duties.
Great! We've not only turned Big Mac and Miss Cheerilee into a couple of nonsense-spoutin' nincompoops, we may have put all of Ponyville in jeopardy!
Come on, Apple Bloom. Miss Cheerilee and Big Mac don't have any royal duties.
But they still got responsibilities. If we don't fix this... Oh no, Miss Cheerilee won't be able to teach. Big Mac won't be able to harvest any apples, and before you know it... Ponyville will be overrun with uneducated little ponies starvin' for apples. Oh, it'll be chaos! It'll be chaos!
There's an antidote!
Well, why didn't you say so? Didn't you see me gettin' all panicked back there?
If we can keep Miss Cheerilee and Big Mac from looking into each other's eyes for one full hour, the love curse will be broken.
Only an hour? Pfh, we can pull that off in a second.
You take the first sip, snuggle-wuggles.
No, you take it, schnoodle-dumplin'.
No, you, shnooky-lumps.
No, you, pookie-pie.
Mrs. I'm all for romance, but this has been going on for hours. What's happened to these two?
[nervous chuckle] Who knows?
Mrs. Well, these lovebirds will probably be planning a wedding soon. I can always use the catering business.
A wedding! That's it! Miss Cheerilee and Big Mac should get married!
How is gettin' hitched gonna keep them apart?
They aren't really gonna get married. They're just gonna get ready to get married.
[chuckle] No, you, biscuit-wiscuit bear!
Nope, you, huggy-wuggy snuggy bunny!
Hi, Miss Cheerilee, how are you?
I have a very special somepony.
I have a very special somepony.
Yeah, we noticed.
Gosh, you two are so in love, the next thing you know, you'll be getting married.
Married?!
That's right. Maaarriiied.
Married...
[gagging] Ugh!
'Course, if you're gonna get married, you wanna pick out a really nice diamond for your – ugh! – shmoopy-doopy, uh, pookie-pie.
Diamond!
[distressed] Shmoopy!
Don't you think you should start looking for your wedding dress? You'll wanna look your best for your... [straining] honey-bunny snuggle-baby.
Oh! Dress!
Now we just need to keep them apart. I'll keep Miss Cheerilee occupied. You two do the same with Big Mac.
No problem.
Meet you back at the clubhouse in an hour when this whole mess is over.
This one looks nice. Better try it on though.
Ten minutes down, fifty minutes to go.
No.
No.
Not that one either.
No.
Too... shiny. No. You know, somethin' less... shiny.
"Karat": Mmm.
Miss Cheerilee deserves the best. How much time is left? I'm runnin' out of ways to make diamonds sound bad.
We still have twenty five minutes.
[sigh] [anxious] Where's my brother?
"Karat": He made his purchase and departed out the back. Said something about needing to see his... shmoopy-shmoo.
Ugh.
Okay, I'll see what I can do to slow him down. You go on to Carousel Boutique and warn Sweetie Belle.
Huh–
What's wrong? Where's Apple Bloom? Where's Big Mac?
On [gasp] his [grunt] way. Gotta [grunt] keep him [gasp] out of boutique.
Huh?
Move away!
He'll get to her! He's too strong!
Let him go!
Shmoopy-doo– Whoa!
[sigh] I sure am glad you found those shovels.
One more minute and the spell will be broken!
Shmoopy-doo!
Sweetums?!
Shmoopy-doo!
Aaaa–
Oh, please be normal, please be normal.
Am I wearing a wedding veil?
Eeyup.
Are you sitting on a feather bed in a hole in the ground?
Eeyup.
Girls! Can you explain why I look like I'm getting married at the bottom of a pit?
We may have given you the teeny-tiniest bit of love potion... that may have turned out to actually be a love poison, and you may have gone just a teeny-tiniest bit nutty.
But we only did it because we thought you and Big Mac would be really happy if you could be each others very special someponies on Hearts and Hooves Day.
Our hearts and hooves were in the right place.
We appreciate that you care about us and want us to be happy but–
But no matter how good our intentions might have been, we shoulda never meddled in your relationship.
Nopony can force two ponies to be together.
It's up to everypony to choose that very special somepony for themselves.
Apple Bloom, Scootaloo, We're sorry.
And you can think about how sorry you are while you're doing all of Big Mac's chores at Sweet Apple Acres. Does that seem like a fair punishment to you?
Eeyup.
Hey there, Miss Cheerilee! What are you doin' here?
Since you three are doing all of his chores, Big Mac and I thought we'd have a picnic at the gazebo. Ready, sugar bear?
Eeyup, pumpkin pie.
Apple Bloom, Scootaloo, [gasp] NOOOOO!!!
Let's do this!
Nailed it!
Morning, DaisyJo! You here to pick up some cookies to go with your milk?
Oh ya, Pinkie, don'tcha know?
Well, Mrs. Cake just baked a fresh batch of your favorite oatmeal.
Mooo, sounds delightful!
Oh, Rose, your Calla lilies look even better than last year! I bet you'll take first prize at the flower show again.
Thanks, Pinkie! Would you like one?
Absolutely! [chomps] Looking fit as a fiddle, Mr. Waddle, and you're wearing my favorite tie!
Mr. Aw, shucks, Miss Pinkie, you flatterer you.
Well, happy birthday, Cheerilee.
Thank you, Pinkie.
Happy day-after-your-birthday, Zecora!
What a lovely hi, Miss Pinkie Pie!
And Miss Matilda, happy birthday to you... in one hundred and thirty two days!
Pinkie Pie! How do you remember everything about everypony?
'Cause everypony's my friend and I love to see my friends smile!
My name is Pinkie Pie (Hello!) And I am here to say (How ya doin'?) I'm gonna make you smile and I will brighten up your day It doesn't matter now (What's up?) If you are sad or blue (Howdy!) 'Cause cheering up my friends is just what Pinkie's here to do
'Cause I love to make you smile, smile, smile Yes I do It fills my heart with sunshine all the while Yes it does 'Cause all I really need's a smile, smile, smile From these happy friends of mine
I like to see you grin (Awesome!) I love to see you beam (Rock on!) The corners of your mouth turned up is always Pinkie's dream (Hoof bump!) But if you're kind of worried And your face has made a frown I'll work real hard and do my best to turn that sad frown upside down
'Cause I love to make you grin, grin, grin Yes I do Bust it out from ear to ear let it begin Just give me a joyful grin, grin, grin And you fill me with good cheer
It's true some days are dark and lonely And maybe you feel sad But Pinkie will be there to show you that it isn't that bad There's one thing that makes me happy and makes my whole life worthwhile And that's when I talk to my friends and get them to smile
I really am so happy Your smile fills me with glee I give a smile I get a smile And that's so special to me
'Cause I love to see you beam, beam, beam Yes I do Tell me what more can I say To make you see That I do It makes me happy when you beam, beam, beam Yes it always makes my day
Come on everypony smile, smile, smile Fill my heart up with sunshine, sunshine All I really need's a smile, smile, smile From these happy friends of mine
Come on everypony smile, smile, smile Fill my heart up with sunshine, sunshine All I really need's a smile, smile, smile From these happy friends of mine
Smile, smile, smile, smile, smile
Come on and smile Come on and smile
I've never seen you before.
Kid, you're smarter than you look.
Thanks! I'm Pinkie Pie. What's your name? "Property of C.D.D." I'm guessing that last "D" is for "Donkey".
Quick as a whip, kid.
Now, how 'bout that "C"? Hmm... Calvin? Calhoun? Caleb? Carl? Carmine? Carlo? Charlie? Chester? Chico? Claudio? Cletus? Clifford? Coraline? Cornelius? Cortez? Crank? Christopher–?
Cranky! It's Cranky, alright?!
And your middle name?
[mumbles] Doodle.
I'm sorry?
[quickly] Doodle.
One more time...!
[sighs] Doodle.
[gasps] So you're a Cranky Doodle Donkey?
You're a Cranky Doodle Donkey guy. A Cranky Doodle Donkey. I never met you but you're my new friend and I'm your best friend Pinkie Pie!
C'mon now, Doodle, give a smile!
Nopony calls me Doodle!
What just happened? Meet somepony new, check. Introduce myself, check. Sing random song outta nowhere, check. Become instant best friends... uncheck. I don't get it. How can somepony not become instant best friends with me? Was it something I said? Was it something I sang? This is no time for the blame game, Pinkie! There's somepony new in town, and you need to win him over! 'Try everything you can to make Cranky smile and be your friend'... Check!
Alright, Pinkie. If you're gonna win Cranky's friendship, you're gonna have to bring your A game! Let's do this. Howdy-doody, Cranky Doodle! So, uh, are you moving to Ponyville, Cranky?
What gave you the hint there, kid? The cart full of stuff, maybe?
Well, I'd be happy to show you around. It's the least a new friend can do.
Listen, kid, I traveled around Equestria my entire life. I've made many friends. I don't need any more.
Gosh! I could never have too many friends!
Well, why don't you go and make some more?
But I don't need to go when I can stay and make friends... with you.
Look, kid, y–
Oh, Cranky, you can call me Pinkie. All of my friends do.
Look, kid, I came to Ponyville for some peace and quiet and privacy, to be alone with my memories. All I want is to get to my new home and unpack my stuff.
Ooh, what does this bauble do?
Don't touch that!
Ooooooh, what's this?
Please, don't!
Oooh, look at these!
Eeeheeeheee!
Pinkie! Keep your hooves off my wagon!
Okay, Cranky. [gasps] [quickly] I promised not to touch your wagon, so I brought one of my own! I use it to welcome folks!
Who'd'a guessed?
[groans] Let's get this over with.
That's the spirit!
Welcome welcome welcome A fine welcome to you Welcome welcome welcome I say how do you do? Welcome welcome welcome I say hip hip hurray Welcome welcome welcome To Ponyville today
Wait for it!
Noooo!
Oh, silly me! I must've put the confetti in the oven and the cake in the confetti cannons! Again! [giggles] [chomps] Mmm, still delicious! Try some, Cranky, it's sure to make you smile.
Oh, where is it, where is it?
Where's what? [yelps] Spider! Big hairy spider!
Stop, stop, stop!
Oh. Was that your wig?
I can fix this, I can fix this! [through megaphone] Hey, everypony! Does anypony have a toupee?!
This donkey is really, really, bald!
[through megaphone] What's so funny? This is serious business, everypony! Cranky needs a new wig to cover his hairless head!
I have had enough!
Oh, you're losing him, Pinkie. Wait, Cranky! Please, let me make it up to you!
No!
Ladies, this is a spa emergency. Cranky needs help, STAT.
Hi, Cranky! I have a gift for you!
The spa treatment was gift enough.
It's not going to explode or anything. Promise. Just open it! It's a new toupee! I had my friend Rarity make it. She calls it the "dreamboat special".
This is wonderful. Thanks, kid.
He's starting to warm up, but still no smile. Hmmm.
Hey! Whatcha doing there, ol' buddy ol' pal?
What's it look like?
Looks like a yard sale. I'll give you two bits for this!
I'm not selling, kid. I'm unpacking.
Well, why didn't you say so?
I thought I had.
This is so pretty! Where'd you get it?
Manehattan. Now put it down, gently.
Really? What were you doin' there?
Trying to find a friend.
Oooh, I'm always trying to find friends, and today I found you. See how good I am at it?
This was a special friend.
Like me?
No, you're extra special, kid.
[to herself] Yes! I'm in! [to Cranky] Woow, where in Equestria did you get this, Cranky?
Fillydelphia.
It's awfully pretty.
Yes, she was.
Huh?
I mean, it was– I mean, it is. Yes, it's pretty. Now put it down!
I wonder where Cranky got this. Huh. Will you look at that? Hey, Cranky! Can I ask you about–
Oh no!
What did you say-ayayayayay! What have you done?!
There! Uh, all better?
No, not all better, all soggy!
I'm sorry, Cranky!
Oh, you're sorry! Well, then, everything is fine!
...It is?
No! It isn't! Listen to me, kid, I will never be your friend!
Never, or never-ever?
Never, ever, ever, ever, ever!
That's four 'evers'. That's like... forever!
I just can't believe it. Cranky said he would never forever be my friend. It was horrible.
I know this is hard for you, Pinkie, seeing that you're friends with everypony, but you just have to accept that Cranky is gonna be an exception. He just... doesn't want to be bothered.
Yeah, he doesn't want to be bothered by your over-the-top super-hyper antics.
Rainbow!
No, no, it's okay, Twilight. I get what you're saying. What you're both saying. And I guess... I can leave Cranky alone. ...Right after he accepts my apology!
Cranky!
No! No! Leave me alone!
Wait! I understand that you don't want me as a friend!
No, I don't!
So I just wanted to say 'I'm sorry'!
Fine! You said it!
But do you accept my apology?
No!
Oh, Cranky! Please accept my apology! Please!
No!
But I'm really, really, really...
...really, really...
Phew!
...really, really, really... ...really, really, really... ...really, really, really... ...really, really, really, really... [continues saying "really", speed increases until] ...sorry!
Cranky, please, please accept my apology! I'd do anything to make it up to you!
But there's nothing you can do! You ruined my book! You destroyed all I have to remember her by!
Her? Her who? The special friend?
[muffled] Cranky? It's me again. I understand that you don't wanna be my friend or accept my apology... Before I leave you alone forever, I have something to at least try to make up for ruining your book.
No, I don't want it, kid! Anything you would give me is sure to lead to some sort of disaster!
[muffled] Goodness, you really are cranky.
It can't be... Is it really you?
It can, and it is.
Matilda! But how?
Pinkie.
But... I never told you about her!
You didn't have to. I put two and two and two together and it added up to Matilda.
What?
Well, when you were talking about your souvenirs, you said something about trying to find a special friend! And y'know, I wasn't just born yesterday. Nuh-uh! My birthday isn't for another seventy five days!
Huh?
And then, in your scrapbook, there was a flower, an old ticket, and a menu from the Grand Galloping Gala! And I knew I recognized all these things.
But how could you have ever seen them before?
Because I also have them in my scrapbook.
And I'd seen them in Matilda's book!
Oh, Matilda. The night we met at the Gala was the most magical night of my life.
[voiceover] I couldn't wait to see you again. But when I came to your room the next day, you were gone.
[voiceover] Didn't you get my note?
[voiceover] No, I never got it. Ever since that day I've gone from town to town to town, searching all over Equestria for you...
...Until finally I gave up. I came to Ponyville to retire from my search.
I was living in Ponyville the whole time. I always hoped that some day you would come and find me... Doodle.
Uh. Matilda? Nopony calls him Doodle.
Nopony... but Matilda. Mmm.
So does this mean that you accept my apology?
Yes, Pinkie, I accept your apology, and I am honored to call you my friend.
[explodes like a firework] Woo-hoo! This is just fantastic! Ooh, now we can hang out together and chat and sing songs and [gasps] party! Oh, I have to throw you guys a big party! It'll be called the 'Welcome to Ponyville/I Found My Lost Love/I'm BFF's with Pinkie Pie' Party! ...Or maybe something less over-the-top and not so super-hyper.
Pinkie, we're eternally grateful to you. But... Matilda and I just want to spend some time together in peace and quiet.
Oh. Um, but we're still friends?
Pinkie, you went way, way, way out of your way to make me happy. Of course we're friends.
Great!
Dear Princess Celestia,
There are many different kinds of friends, and many ways to express friendship. Some friends like to run and laugh and play together. But others just like to be left alone, and that's fine too. But the best thing about friendship is being able to make your friends smile.
He had a Cranky Doodle sweetheart She's his cranky doodle joy I helped the Cranky Doodle boy, yeah! I helped the Cranky Doodle boy!
Pinkie!
Whoops, privacy. Sorry.
Lunch time! Who's hungry?
Here you go, Angel bunny.
Okay, Mister Picky-pants, you win. Carrots, lettuce and apples, yum-yum-yum!
What? But... Well then, what will you eat? I'm not sure I can even make that. Well... I don't want you to starve... Oh, are you sure I can't tempt you with a nice crisp piece of–
[sighs] I'll make your special recipe.
Hmm, let's see. Asparagus. Excuse me, um, I think you just stepped in front of me? Excuse me, I think you made a mistake? You see I was actually here first and–
Sorry, didn't notice you there.
I know.
Oh, pardon me, sir–
Yes, what?
I think you just cut in front of me.
A cut of celery? But– this is the asparagus stand!
I said [into ear trumpet] I think you just cut in front of me.
Ohoh, no need, dearie, I'm already in front!
I noticed.
"Turf": [fades in] ...And I was like, 'Oh, wow.'
Hey!
"Turf": Would you mind moving back? You're in my personal space.
But–
"Surf": Seriously, do you need your asparagus so badly? Get a life.
Oh, okay. There's no rush.
Fluttershy, you mustn't let them treat you that way.
Oh, it's-it's really no big deal...
It's bigger than big. It's double big. You are a pony with a problem.
What problem? Oh, go right ahead, Pinkie Pie. You first.
Right there! That's the problem.
You've got to stop being such a doormat.
A doormat?
A pushover, darling. You've got to stand up for yourself, promise us.
Oh, okay. I promise. Oh! Good!
Oh, that's okay, I don't mind.
Watch and learn. Hold it right there, Mister small and handsome.
Uh, who, me?
Oh, of course you. Nopony ever called you handsome before?
Uhh, that'd be a big no.
Oh, well, they should! How about flexing some of your muscles for me? [gasps] Oh, my heavens! Do you think a strong, handsome stallion such as yourself could give my friend the last asparagus?
[mumbles] Nuhh.
See, that's not so hard, is it?
Um... I guess not.
Alright then! What else is on your list?
Let's see... I also need tomatoes.
Here you go.
"Roma": [clears throat] That'll be two bits. Not one.
Oh, but last week, it was only one bit.
"Roma": That was then, this is now.
Oh, okay. I don't wanna argue about it.
What do you think you're doing?
"Roma": Mindin' my own business, maybe you should try it.
Two bits for tomatoes is outrageous. One bit is the right price.
"Roma": I say it's two bits.
One bit.
"Roma": Two bits!
One bit!
"Roma": Two bits!
One bit!
"Roma": Two bits!
Two bits!
"Roma": One bit!
Two bits!
"Roma": One bit!
I insist it's two bits or nothing!
"Roma": One bit and that's my final offer!
Have it your way, one bit it is!
See? Asserting yourself can be fun!
I guess you're right!
So, Fluttershy, do you feel like giving it a try?
Um... okay. [to self] I need that cherry. [to Crafty Crate] Boy, am I glad you have one cherry left. You see, I'm making this special meal for my bunny Angel. He's a very picky eater, and the recipe calls for a cherry on top.
Here you go.
So, you say you need this cherry 'very badly'.
Oh, yes, I'm desperate for it!
Then it'll be ten bits!
Ten?! Oh, hey, mister handsome, I know you wanna do the right thing because you're handsome and strong, and big, handsome, strong guys are always nice to everypony, right?
Ten bits for the cherry.
Ten bits for one cherry's outrageous! I insist on paying you... eleven bits!
Eleven bits?
Umm...I mean, nine bits!
Er, now wait a minute.
Okay, twelve bits, but that's my final offer!
I think you're confused.
It's twelve bits, take it or leave it.
Okay, I'll take it!
Don't give him your money! One cherry is not worth twelve bits!
But... I was only doing what you did.
It was a valiant effort, but you should refuse to give him your business and just walk away.
But... I can't let Angel starve! He won't eat it unless I make it just right! I need that cherry no matter what it costs!
In that case, twenty bits!
Twenty?! Oh, but, I don't have that much!
Then why're you wasting my time?
I'll give you two bits for that cherry!
Sold! Eh, tough break, kid. Next time, don't be such a doormat.
Ta-da! Here you go, Angel. Sorry there's no cherry on top, but the rest of it is exactly what you wanted. Angel? [sighs] Look at me... I really am a doormat. "The incredible Iron Will turns doormats into dynamos. Assertiveness seminar today, hedge maze centre." As Celestia is my witness, I'm never gonna be a pushover again!
[kissing] Welcome, friends! My name is Iron Will, and today is the first day of your new life! I wanna hear you stomp if you're tired of being a pushover!
Stomp if you're tired of being a doormat!
Stomp if you wanna pay nothing for this seminar!
That's no joke, friends. Iron Will is so confident that you will be one hundred percent satisfied with Iron Will's assertiveness techniques, that if you are not one hundred percent satisfied, you. Pay. Nothing. But I pity the fool who doubts Iron Will's methods! You don't doubt me, do you?
Uh-uh, no sir...
That, my friends, is your first lesson. "Don't be shy; look 'em in the eye."
Now, to demonstrate that Iron Will's techniques will work for anypony, I'm gonna need a volunteer.
You in the back row!
Who, me?
Yes, you! Iron Will wants you onstage!
[gulps] Uh, well...
Now!
[whispering] Okay.
Whoaa! He's blocking your path. What are you gonna do about it?
Um, politely walk around him?
No.
Gingerly tip-toe around him?
No!
Go back home and try again tomorrow?
No! "When somepony tries to block, show them that you rock!"
Oh! Sorry.
Don't be sorry! Be assertive! "Never apologize when you can criticize." [clears throat] why don't you watch where you're going!? Now, you try.
Uh... next time, get out of the way before... I bump into you, 'cause... I totally won't be sorry when I do!
You see my friends!? If my techniques can work for this shy, little pony, then they can work for anypony!
Okay, I feel good. I feel ready to "attack the day", as Iron Will says.
Excuse me, Mr. Greenhooves, but I-I think you might be over-watering my petunias...
...again.
"Treat me like a pushover, and you'll get the once over."
Mr. Hm? Hmm... [coughs and sputters] Well, perhaps that is enough water.
Thank you. [excited giggle] I can't believe it worked!
Showpony business is tough.
Go ahead, try one of your jokes out on me. I laugh at everything.
Okay, okay, okay. A donkey and a mule are stuck on a desert island...
[clears throat] Excuse me? Would you mind moving your carts so I can pass?
Yeah yeah, in a minute, I just wanna finish up this story. And so the donkey says to the mule–
A-hemmmm, can you move? You're blocking my path.
Yeah yeah, in a minute! So the donkey says to the mule... [fades under] (Why don't we build a boat to get off this island? [laughs])
"When somepony tries to block, show them that you rock!"
...and the mule says–
Ugh! Easy does it, lady. We're moving, okay?
Good!
Who's next please? And what can I get for you today?
What do you think you're doing?! Didn't you see me?
Uh, I guess maybe.
'Maybe'? "Maybes are for babies!" [growling] Now go to the back of the line where you belong!
Heyyy, look at you!
Oh, your attitude is so feisty, it's fabulous.
Looks like that monster's workshop really paid off!
Iron Will's not a monster. He's a minotaur, and a true inspiration. His techniques really work.
Well, they've certainly made a difference in the way you carry yourself. You truly are a whole new Fluttershy.
Yes I am. And new Fluttershy feels pretty stoked about new Fluttershy.
"You laugh at me, I wrath at you!"
Bye, girls. What a day. Taxi! Oh no you don't. "Cut in line, I'll take what's mine!"
Aieeeeee! Ow...
Nopony pushes new Fluttershy around! [screams] Nopony!
Old Pinkie Pie is not so sure new Fluttershy is such a good idea after all.
Old Rarity agrees.
You got this, new Fluttershy! This day is yours! And nopony's gonna take it away from you! Am I right?! Right! What?! He's delivered the wrong mail, again!
"Mr. Zippy": Oh–
And new Fluttershy does not want the wrong mail delivered to her cottage.
"Mr. Zippy": Ohh, did I mix 'em up again? Sorry about that.
"You apologize, I penalize!"
"Mr. Zippy": Oh!
Excuse me, do you know how to get to the Ponyville tower?
Oh, that's a shame.
[growls] "You make me lose, I blow my fuse!"
Hey!
Fluttershy! What are you doing?! That's no way to behave!
Didn't you see what he did to new Fluttershy? And he thought new Fluttershy was a pushover!
No, sweetie, he didn't. We saw the whole thing. We think that you've taken your assertiveness training a little too far.
What?! You just want new Fluttershy to be a doormat like old Fluttershy! But old Fluttershy is gone!
New Fluttershy? Old Fluttershy!?
What happened to nice Fluttershy? We want that Fluttershy back.
No, you want wimp Fluttershy. You want pushover Fluttershy. You want do-anything-to-her-and-she-won't-complain Fluttershy!
Nyaaaaah! Too many Fluttershys to keep track of! Make it stop!
Things getting too complicated for your simple little brain, Pinkie Pie?
Now, stop right there! Let's not let things descend into petty insults!
Why not? I thought 'petty' was what you're all about, Rarity. With your 'petty' concerns about fashion.
Hey, leave her alone! Fashion is her passion!
Oh, and what are you passionate about? Birthday cake? Party hats? I can't believe that the two most frivolous ponies in Ponyville are trying to tell new Fluttershy how to live her life when they are throwing their own lives away on pointless pursuits that nopony else gives a flying feather about!
[starts crying] Looks like nasty Fluttershy is here to stay!
[starts crying] I cannot believe what that monster Iron Will has done to you!
Iron Will's not a monster, he's a minotaur! [growls] [whimper] I'm the monster.
[knocks, clears throat] Fluttershy, are you in there?
It's Pinkie Pie and Rarity!
[muffled] Go away! Go away before nasty Fluttershy strikes again!
Oh, sweetie, we all said things that we regret.
We did?
Shh.
[muffled] Pinkie's right. I'm the only one to blame. [normal] But don't worry, I'm never coming out of my house again. Everypony will be a lot safer with me and my mean mouth locked away.
[muffled] Sweetie, [normal] Pinkie Pie doesn't blame you, nor do I. You just received some bad advice from that Iron Will character.
Yeah! He's the one that made you act super-duper nasty. What I mean is, there are other ways to assert yourself besides yelling at everypony.
Yes! [muffled] You can stand up for yourself without being unpleasant about it.
I-I'm not sure I can. I'm too far gone. Whenever I try to assert myself, I become a monster.
Oh, sweetie, you're not a monster.
No, but he is.
Iron Will's my name, training ponies is my game.
What a darling little catchphrase.
Your friend Fluttershy loved Iron Will's catchphrases. Word on the street is that she doesn't take no guff from nopony! So, Iron Will is here to collect Iron Will's fee.
Fluttershy is in no shape to deal with that creep!
[gasps] I'm sure a big, brave, powerful, and rich monster– I mean, minotaur like you doesn't need that money right away. You can afford to come back later.
Are you kidding? Fluttershy is overdue as it is. Iron Will collects now.
Do something!
We're not even sure Fluttershy is home right now. Uh, she might be off frolicking with some woodland creatures. Uh, why don't you give us some time to track her down for ya?
Iron Will does have some grocery shopping to do. Iron Will will come back this afternoon.
But that's only half a day. We need one full day at least.
Iron Will will delay for half a day and no longer!
A full day!
Half day!
Full day!
Half day!
Half day!
Full day!
We need half a day and no more!
Well, you'll get a full day and no less!
Okie-dokie. See you tomorrow.
Wait, what?
Huh, sounds like the search won't be necessary. Iron Will collects now.
But we had an agreement! You gotta come back tomorrow!
"When somepony tries to block, show them that you rock!"
[snorts] You were nothing but a doormat, and Iron Will turned you into a lean, mean, assertive machine! Now, pay Iron Will what you owe Iron Will!
Um, no.
What did you say?
No.
As I recall, during your workshop you promised one hundred percent satisfaction guaranteed, or you pay nothing. Well, I'm not satisfied.
What do you mean you're not satisfied?! Everypony has always been satisfied!
Well, I guess I'm the first then. But since I'm not satisfied, I refuse to pay. It's as simple as that.
Ohh, are you... sure you're not just a little bit satisfied? B-because maybe... we could cut a deal. I-I mean we're both reasonable creatures, aren't we?
I'm sorry, but no means no.
No means no, huh? Nopony's ever said that to me before. Huh... I gotta remember that one. That's a good catchphrase for my next workshop.
You were amazing, Fluttershy! You totally stood up to that monster!
In fact, you didn't change at all! You were the same old Fluttershy that we've always loved!
The one we missed!
Don't worry, old Fluttershy's back for good. I'm sorry I took the whole assertiveness thing too far. Friends?
Friends.
Dear Princess Celestia,
Sometimes it can be hard for a shy pony like me to stand up for myself, and when I first tried it, I didn't like the pony I became. But I've learned that standing up for yourself isn't the same as changing who you are. Now I know how to put my hoof down without being unpleasant or mean.
[sighs] I made it for you, Rarity. Why, yes, it is an ice cream house. Chocolate fudge shingles... rocky road garage...
Huh? Twilight?
Oh, hi, Spike!
It's the middle of the night! Why are you pacing like this?
Frankly, I don't know how you can sleep at a time like this!
Three A.M.?
It's awful, it's horrible, it's tragic!
Eh... I don't understand. What's wrong?
Here. Now do you see what's wrong?
We forgot to celebrate Arbor Day?
No, the problem is I just finished planning my schedule for the month, but I forgot to leave time to plan for next month! Don't you see? There's no time in my schedule to put together another schedule! I could move my meeting with the Ponyville Hay Board to the following Tuesday, but then I have to reschedule my lunch with Pinkie Pie, and you know what a nightmare she is with scheduling. This is an absolute disaster. My whole year could be thrown off!
And I woke up from an ice cream dream for this...
Oh, my gosh, I think I did it! If I can find a way to read "The Art of Invisibility Spells" and "Thornhoof's Brief History of Canterlot" at the same time, that could leave me a half-hour scheduling window! Huh?
Twilight, you've got to listen to me!
Who are you? I mean, you're me, but I'm me too. How can there be two me's? It's not scientifically possible. You are not scientifically possible!
Twilight, please! I have a very important message for you from the future!
You're from the future?!
That's right, now listen–
What happened to you? The future must be awful.
Please! I don't have much time!
Is there some sort of epic pony war in the distant future or something?
Actually, I'm from next Tuesday morning, but that's not important right now!
I can't believe time travel is really possible! How did you, I mean, I figure it out?
The time spells are in the Canterlot archives. But that's not–
Really? Where? I've never seen them.
They're in the Star Swirl the Bearded wing. Now, you have to listen to–
I have something extremely important to tell you about the future, and I only have a few seconds, so you've got to listen! Whatever you do, don't–
C'mon, Fluttershy! The party can't start until the party supplies get there!
[grunts] Happy to... help... but... can I carry... the balloons next time?
Oh!
Listen, everypony! I've got something really important to say!
This is no laughing matter! We have a crisis on our hooves!
I've just been visited by myself from the future!
This isn't a joke! My future self tried to warn me about a horrible disaster that's going to occur sometime before next Tuesday morning!
What kind of disaster?
I don't know! I got sucked back into the future before I could explain!
Run for your liiiiiiiife!
What ever should we do, Twilight? How do we stop the disaster if we don't know what it is?
We'll just have to work together to make sure we're safe. Rainbow Dash, you and the other Pegasi spread out over Equestria, and look for any kind of problem that could lead to a disaster, and I mean anything.
You got it!
Everypony else–
Everypony else, time to disaster-proof Equestria!
Eeyup.
Done, and done, and done. Applejack, what about the Everfree Forest?
The perimeter's clear.
Great.
And my team gave the all clear from Fillydelphia to Las Pegasus.
Excellent. Well, we've done everything on the list, but still... Future Twilight looked like she'd been through a horrible ordeal. I just have this nagging feeling we should be looking for something bigger than loose bolts and leaky pipes.
What is that thing?!
That's Cerberus! He's supposed to be guarding the gates of Tartarus. But if he's here, then all the ancient evil creatures that have been imprisoned there could escape and destroy Equestria!
Destroy Equestria?!
Yeah! Isn't it great? Hey, Cerberus! You look like you could use some obedience training! Magic obedience training!
Huh?
Who's the cute widdle three-headed dog?
Wow, I knew you were good with animals, but this is amazing!
Aww, he's just a big furry guy who got out of his yard, that's all. Right, Cerberus? Who's a good boy? Who's a good boy?
Pinkie.
[stops screaming] Yes, Twilight?
Do you have a ball I can borrow?
I have balls stashed all over Ponyville, in case of ball emergency.
[sing-song voice] Hey, Cerberus! Look what I have!
I'll be back as soon as I've returned him to the gates of Tartarus. Once he's back at home, there'll be no disaster.
[yawns] I wish Twilight would go on epic adventures more often. Best night's sleep I've had in weeks.
Hey, Twilight. How'd it go with Cerberus?
Great. I got him back before any of the evil creatures could escape.
[yelps] Oh no!
What's the big deal, it's just a 'lost dog' flyer. I guess the Princess hasn't heard we found Cerberus yet.
It's not that, it's this!
A paper cut? Come on, Twilight, you really need to toughen up. Just clean it out and you'll be fine.
The cut's in the exact same spot as the scar on future Twilight's cheek! We haven't changed the future at all! The disaster is still coming!
If the disaster wasn't caused by Cerberus getting loose, then what could it possibly be?
[laughs] I dunno, but maybe you ought to give the pacing a rest. You've worn a groove into the floor!
I don't have time for another one of your lectures, Spike! This is serious!
My lectures?
I did everything I could think of to change the future. But it didn't work. So maybe it's not what I do... Maybe it's what I don't do!
Huh?
If I stand right here and don't move a muscle until next Tuesday, I can't possibly do whatever it is that future Twilight wanted to warn me not to do!
Really? So... no matter what happens, you're not gonna move a muscle, huh? Then maybe you won't mind if I... eat an entire tub of ice cream!
[through gritted teeth] Spike, stop! Think of the stomach ache!
[chuckles] Stomach ache, huh? That's future Spike's problem.
Hey, Twilight, another Pegasus just got back from Baltimare with an all-clear and– [laughs] What's going on? Aren't you gonna stop him?
She sure isn't! In fact, she's not gonna move 'til next Tuesday! She thinks it'll prevent the disaster from happening!
[laughs] Oh, this is too rich. [gasps] Hey, Twilight! There's a mouse right behind you!
Oh no!
What happened?
I'm so sorry! I didn't mean to! It was a total accident!
Show me.
Uhhh... I'm not so sure that's a–
Show me! Oh no! This is the same mane cut as future Twilight!
Y'know... it really doesn't look too bad...
I don't care how it looks! It's just another sign that the future hasn't changed! Not doing anything didn't work either! Oh, I wish there was a way to know what was going to happen so I could stop it!
You wanna see the future? I might know somepony who can help!
What's this?
It's Madame Pinkie's place.
Madame Pinkie?
[spookily] Come... Enter the chamber of Madame Pinkie Pie... For the answers you seek, let us consult the mystical orb of fate's destiny... [normal] Do you like my mystical orb of fate's destiny? I just got it. Cool, huh?
Yeah, uh... best one I've seen.
[spookily] Look deep into the crystal ball... for soon it will reveal all! Ah, yes, I see something... It is a vision of the future... I see... you, Twilight. You will get a really cool birthday present next year...
Yes, and?
That's it.
Are you sure?
Yep. Cool birthday present.
Pinkie, I need your Pinkie Sense to tell me what the impending disaster is that future Twilight was trying to warn me about!
Oh, my fortunetelling has nothing to do with my Pinkie Sense, silly. It's only good for vague and immediate events.
Like that, see? Where did that even come from?
Lalalalalalala, lalalala... Gosh, I haven't seen Twilight since the flowerpot incident. Hope she still isn't mad. Uhhhh...
Off by point zero two from yesterday. Carry the fifteen... Negative azimuth on the fourteenth moon...
Hey Pinkie.
Twilight's really serious about finding out about that cool birthday present, isn't she?
Who cares? As long as I can keep eating ice cream. Sorry, future Spike.
[to Twilight] Are... you okay?
Ah, Pinkie, I'm glad you're here. Can you help me recalibrate the apertures on the nine-and-quarter catadioptric telescopes?
Sure!
So I was thinking, after I came to see Madame Pinkie and the flowerpot landed on my head—see the bandage? Just like the bandage from the future...
Nice!
I had an epiphany after that flowerpot. Doing things didn't work, not doing things didn't work, and I couldn't predict the future either, so I only had one other choice. Monitor everything.
Makes sense to me!
That way no matter what happens in the future, I'll be ready! I thought I saw something last night in the Horsehead Nebula, but after staring at it for three straight hours I realized, I was wrong!
Three hours? But when did you sleep?
Oh, I didn't sleep. I haven't slept since future Twilight was here. There are only three days left until next Tuesday, I can sleep all I want after that!
You've been awake too long, Twilight.
Yeah. Tuesday's not three days from now, Tuesday's tomorrow!
[gasps] Pinkie, did you finish recalibrating the apertures on the nine-and-quarter-inch catadioptric telescopes?
I have no idea!
Ah! My eye!
Don't worry, Twilight, I have eye patches stashed all over Ponyville, in case of eye patch emergency. There! Now you look like a pirate! A sleepy pirate, with a really weird mane cut.
The eye patch...! Another sign! Nearly all the signs have come true! I haven't done a thing to prevent the catastrophe! If Tuesday's tomorrow, and the disaster happens by Tuesday morning, then there's only one solution. I'll just have to... stop time!
[hushed] Okay, the Canterlot archives are right over there. Let's move!
Uhh... I don't think we need to sneak around, Twilight. It's not illegal to walk around Canterlot.
[hushed] Guard! C'mon, you guys! [exhales] That was close.
I dunno why we have to wear these things, either.
Aren't we wearing them for fun?
[hushed] No, there's nothing fun about this!
Oh... Are you sure?
[hushed] Focus, guys! The only way to prevent this disaster is to stop time! Time spells are kept in the Star Swirl the Bearded wing, the most secure section of the archives. That's why we're sneaking around!
Awesome! That sounds fun!
[hushed] No, it's not fun!
Aww.
I still don't understand how sneaking into the archives is gonna help her find out about her birthday present.
[hushed] The coast is clear. Now slowly lift me into the window so we can– AH!
[sighs] Let's get this over with.
[hushed] Okay, if my calculations are correct, the Star Swirl the Bearded wing should be right... here.
Uh, Twilight?
[hushed] What is it, Spike?
Isn't this where we came in?
Cool! Can we climb in the window again? That was super fun!
I don't understand. It's supposed to be right here... How are we supposed to find it now?
Maybe we should ask somepony in the Star Swirl the Bearded wing?
Huh. How'd I miss that? Look at all those priceless magic scrolls. There are more than I ever imagined!
Twilight, the guard!
[gasps] What do we do, what do we do?!
Hey, Twilight, haven't seen you in a while. Let me open that for ya.
[chuckles nervously] Thanks!
Oh no!
Oof!
Oh!
Look! I look just like future Twilight... The last sign has come true!
And that's bad, right?
Come on! It's almost Tuesday morning! The disaster could happen at any moment!
But how do we find the time-stopping spell? There must be a million scrolls here!
I. Don't. Know!
Twilight, it's over! It's officially Tuesday morning.
Nnngh, no! Tuesday morning, the disaster! Incoming!
I dunno, Twilight. I don't see any disasters. Looks like a pretty nice day.
Good morning, Twilight. Love the new hairstyle. Well, happy Tuesday!
Why isn't anypony surprised to see me sneaking around in here?! Is it possible there never was a disaster? That I've just been making myself frantic over nothing?!
I don't get it. If future Twilight wasn't warning you about a disaster, then what was she trying to tell you?
[giggles] I don't know. But I do know one thing. I look ridiculous.
Yeah, you do!
And it's all because I couldn't stop worrying and let the future handle itself! Well, not anymore. From now on, I'm gonna solve problems as they come, and stop worrying about every little thing!
That's great! Does that mean there won't be any more late night pacing?
No more late night pacing. If only I had learned this lesson a week ago, we wouldn't have had to go through all this.
Twilight, Twilight, I found something! It doesn't stop time, but it lets you go back in time. It says you can go back once, and it only lasts for a few moments. Does that help?
Pinkie, you're a genius!
Woo-hoo!
Now I can go back and tell past Twilight that she doesn't need to go berserk with worry about a disaster that's never gonna come!
Twilight, you've got to listen to me!
Who are you? I mean, you're me, but I'm me too. How can there be two me's? It's not scientifically possible. You are not scientifically possible!
Twilight, please! I have a very important message for you from the future!
You're from the future?!
That's right, now listen–
What happened to you? The future must be awful.
Please! I don't have much time!
Is there some sort of epic pony war in the distant future or something?
Actually, I'm from next Tuesday morning, but that's not important right now!
I can't believe time travel is really possible! How did you, I mean, I figure it out?
The time spells are in the Canterlot archives. But that's not–
Really? Where? I've never seen them.
They're in the Star Swirl the Bearded wing. Now, you have to listen to–
I have something extremely important to tell you about the future, and I only have a few seconds, so you've got to listen! Whatever you do, don't–
–waste your time... worrying... about... Ugh! I can't believe I just did that!
Did you tell her about the cool birthday present?
Remember last week when future Twilight came to warn me about something? That was me trying to warn myself not to worry so much! Now I'm gonna spend the next week freaking out about a disaster that doesn't even exist! Ugh...
Ah, don't worry about it. It's past Twilight's problem now.
[giggles] Huh, I guess you're right, Pinkie.
[stomach growls] Ohhh... my stomach... I, I think it's all that ice cream... I thought the stomach ache would be future Spike's problem... but now I am future Spike. Ohh...
Come on, future Spike. Let's get you home.
C'mon, Fluttershy, it'll be fun!
There's nothing fun about dragons! Scary, yes! Fun, no!
But Fluttershy, the great dragon migration happens only once in a generation! Do you really wanna pass up a chance like that?
Now that you put it that way, yes!
Aw, Fluttershy, we just don't want you to miss out.
Miss out on what? Dragons? Big, scaly, fire-breathing dragons?
Well... yeah!
Thanks, but... no thanks!
Look, Fluttershy, I watched that boring butterfly migration with you, so now it's your turn to watch the dragon migration with me! You owe me!
I... said... no!
Yeaagh! Ugh!
Okay, I guess I'll let you off the hook this time.
[hushed] I don't see any dragons.
[hushed] Me neither.
Me neither neither.
Shoot! You don't think we missed them, do you?
[hushed] No, I don't think so. We're just a little early, and I'm glad we are. This way, we can watch every moment of the migration without bringing any unwanted attention to ourselves!
Yoo-hoo! Well?
What do you think? Am I the toast of the trench or what?
[hushed] You'll be toast alright, when the dragons see you parading around in that getup.
[hushed] You look very nice, Rarity, but could you maybe look nice down here in the trench with us?
Nice is an understatement. I look fabulous! Who says camouflage has to be drab?
[hushed] Ahoy, maties! Dragons ho!
Oooh... Ahhhh!
Wow, amazing!
Pfft, pretty lame move. Is that all they've got?
[hushed] What do ya think of that 'move', Rainbow Dash? Still think they're lame?
[hushed] Uh, not so much. The word 'fierce' comes to mind.
[hushed] And 'formidable'.
[hushed] And 'super-duper scary'!
Yeah. Us dragons are definitely a force to be reckoned with.
[laughs] Yeah, right, Spike. That's one of the scariest aprons I've ever seen!
What's wrong with wearing an apron? You won't be laughing when you spill blueberries all over your scales. Feathers. That's one tough stain!
You leave him alone, Rainbow Dash! Spike's style is unique. He doesn't have to look like other dragons.
Or act like them.
My little Spikey-wikey is perfect the way he is.
I don't act like other dragons?
Oh, not even close!
But why would you want to, Spike?
Yes. You've got something those dreadfully fierce dragons can only dream of.
What's that?
The cutest widdle chubby cheeks! Ooooo!
Cute?! Dragons aren't supposed to be cute! Right?
Oh, sweetie, you are turning the most delightful shade of red. It is most becoming.
Rrrgh!
Oh, isn't he adorable when he waddles off in anger?
Waddle?! Rrrrrggggh!
What am I? Where am I from? Who am I supposed to be?
Uuugh! I don't know! For the last time, Spike, you were given to me as an egg. I don't know who found you or where they found you.
Seriously? That's all you know?
I'm sorry, Spike.
That doesn't tell me anything about who I am! I need answers! I feel like I'm... I'm looking at a complete stranger. Oh!
Oh, Spike. Why don't we do some late-night research? See what we can find out.
Really? You'd do that?
Of course! I'm sure we can find something.
Nothing. Nothing in this one either!
Nothing at all about dragons? This is getting ridiculous!
I know! It's hard to believe, but ponies know next to nothing about dragons. Apparently they're too rare and too scary to try to talk to or study!
I wonder if dragons cry...
Aw, Spike.
It's okay, Twilight. I'm gonna discover who I am if it's the last thing I do!
Yoo-hoo!
Hey, guys!
Waugh!
Good morning!
Ya wanna join us for breakfast?
That sounds great. I'm famished.
Count me out. I've gotta get an early start!
An early start?
Yes! I'm going on a quest of self-discovery! I need to learn what it means to be a dragon! And the only way I'm gonna do that is to join the dragon migration!
Twilight Sparkle, Rarity, What?!?
Spike, that's nonsense talk! I know that you're a dragon, but those dragons mean business! They're big, and tough, and scary...
And I'm small, and meek... and I like to wear aprons. See? This is exactly why I need to spend time with them.
All I'm saying is that you could get hurt.
Darling, this time I really do have to agree with Rainbow Dash. I don't want those big, ugly, nasty dragons to hurt one little scale on your cutesy-wutesy head!
I'm sorry, but I've made up my mind.
Oh, uh, quick, do something! Stop him before it's too late!
Ngh! Hey! Give it back!
Hold it!
Whoa!
Aaagh!
Really?
Don't tell me you think he should go?
Yes, Spike. I couldn't answer your questions. My books couldn't either. I understand why you want to look elsewhere. I truly believe you need to go on this quest. And we have no right to stop you.
I suppose not.
I still say you're nutty, but hey, I've done lots of nutty things.
Rarity, We know.
[under her breath] Rrgh.
Well then, I guess this is goodbye, Spike. We can't wait to hear about it when you return.
Yeah, we hope your trip–
Quest.
–your quest answers some of your pesky "Who am I?" questions.
Thanks, everypony. I know it will.
Goodbye, Spikey-wikey!
Go get 'em, big guy!
We have faith in you!
[through her grin] We're following him, right?
[through her grin] Of course.
Ugh!
Nngh...
Alright, teenage dragons! Now that's more my speed. And size.
I'm telling you, we'll never pass for a real dragon!
Oh, pish-posh! This costume is fabulous, one of my finer creations.
Shh! [hushed] We'll never pass if they hear three voices coming out of one dragon! Now come on, let's go!
Um, excuse me? Uh, hi. I'm Spike.
You sure your name is Spike and not Shrimp?!
No, it's Spike! I'm not, I mean, I'm sure about that...
"Clump": You look more like Peewee to me.
"Clump": You fly in on your mommy's back during the migration?
Not exactly...
No, no, can't you see baby Spike just hatched? I bet he still sucks his claw at night!
No, I haven't sucked my claw in months!
Well, if you weren't just hatched, how come we haven't seen you around before?
Oh, well, y'see, I live in Ponyville and–
Hahaha! Ponyville? That explains it! I knew there was something vaguely pony-ish about you! If I didn't know any better, I'd say you were part pony!
Who, me? I'm not part pony! I'm all dragon, see? Raar!
Or maybe you're a pony in a dragon costume.
[deep voice] Aheh... yeah... hilarious.
Nnh, I am a real dragon!
Oh, yeah? Prove it.
Well... how?
By acting like one! Who's up for a little belching contest?
You think you can beat that, Peewee?
Huh?
From the desk of Princess Celestia. Dear Spike, please te– Ha! Get this, guys! Spike's pen-pals with a namby-pamby pony princess!
[gasps] How can he just throw that away?! That letter could be something important!
We can't worry about that now, Twilight. We're here to help Spike!
I know, I know!
There's no reason to disrespect Princess Celestia that way!
Maybe tail wrestling is more your speed.
Uh...
Yeah!
Ready... go!
The winner!
Good old tail wrestling...
We can't let little Spikey-wikey wrestle one of them! He'll get clobbered!
Let's go! [deep voice] I challenge Spike to a tail wrestle!
Who's this weirdo?
I think he's Crackle's cousin.
BWAAGH!
Oh, that would explain it. Ready? Go!
Spike's the winner!
Nice going, little Spike! Maybe you are a dragon after all!
Yeah! Maybe I am!
Rainbow Dash, I can't believe your silly plan actually worked. Ow.
Alright, who's next?
Getting a little cocky, huh? I like that. So how about you wrestle... him! Go!
Whooooooooa!
So, Spike, you haven't exactly proven yourself as a dragon yet, have you?
But... I get an A for effort?
Huh, maybe. Let's see how you do in this next contest.
Whaaaaa! Oof! Wha! Oah! Oof!
King of the hoard!
This is my chance.
Not so fast!
Oof!
"Clump" Whoa!
King of the ho- whoa! Oof! Uh! Nuh! Oof!
Looks like this is another fail for you, little Spike. Can't wait to watch you fail at lava cannonball, too.
Whoever makes the biggest lava splash is the ultimate dragon! Geronimo!
Nuh!
[hushed] Spike's on his own this time.
"Clump": Cannonball!
Guh!
What's wrong, Spike? You afraid the lava will hurt your soft pony hide?
Oooh...
Ugh... Was I... that bad?
No, dude. That was awesome! No pony could live through a belly flop like that! [chuckles] You're one tough little dragon.
Spike, by belly flopping so hard, you have proven yourself worthy. I hereby dub you 'rookie dragon', and will now perform the initiation ritual. Rrrrgh. [chuckles] Now let's party dragon style!
Man, was that a great party.
Great? Huh, maybe by Ponyville standards. Stick with us, Spike. We still got plenty to teach you about being a dragon.
I'm not going anywhere. The way I feel right now, I could hang out with you guys forever.
Rainbow Dash, Forever?!
Spikey-wikey is going to stay with these awful dragons? Forever?
Oh no, this is terrible!
I should've stopped him back at the library when I had the chance!
No, Rainbow Dash, this is all my fault! I encouraged him to go!
Y'know, Spike, I think you just might be ready for a real dragon raid.
There's a nest full of phoenix eggs nearby, and we're gonna swipe 'em!
"Clump": Aren't you totally psyched to go on this raid?
Oh yeah, I'm excited. I mean, I'm psyched.
Alright then. Let's fly!
Uh, sorry, guys! I guess I'll meet you back here at the crater! After the whole raid thing's over? We'll totally hang then! Whoahoa!
Oh no, they took Spike! We've gotta go after them!
[yelps] Rainbow Dash, stop! We can't fly!
And you're ruining my fabulous costume!
I'm sorry, but we gotta help Spike!
Well, we're just gonna have to hoof it!
Alright, Spike. Since you're our rookie dragon, you get to lure the parents away from the nest.
Heh... Lucky me...
Well go on, then!
Hey, Mr. and Mrs. Phoenix! I was hoping I could have a word with you? Um, I'd, um, like to ask you some questions actually...
[hushed] We haven't got all day, Spike!
Hey, you bird brains! Come and get me!
What the...
The eggs have hatched.
"Clump": What do we do now?
We take the hatchlings, of course!
Get 'em!
Ohh... Get them!
[chuckles] Nnnghh...
Ugh!
Nnngh, they got away! I hate that!
Oof!
Huh, what have we got here? What happened?
They got away! Hey! You stole an egg?
Uh...
Well, I guess the raid wasn't a total waste after all.
Nice going, Spike.
"Clump": Well, what are you waiting for, Spike? Smash it!
Smash the egg?
"Clump": Yeah!
Yeah, throw it on the ground as hard as you can!
Yeah! Smash it! Smash it! Smash it! Smash it! Smash it!
No! It's just a defenseless egg, like I was! And I'm not gonna let you hurt it!
What did you say?
I said no.
Nopony's gonna lay a claw on him!
That's right!
Fighting's not really my thing, I'm more into fashion, but I'll rip you to pieces if you touch one scale on his cute little head!
Ooh, scary, hehe! Spike, are these namby-pamby ponies your friends?
Yes, they are. And they're better friends than you could ever be. Now, if you don't back off, you'll see what us ponies do when confronted by a huge group of jerky dragons.
Oh, yeah? [snorts] What's that?
Run away!
Nyuh!
Phew, that was a close one. Thanks, you guys.
Of course. What are friends for?
You're more than friends. You're my family.
Dear Princess Celestia,
Seeing the great dragon migration made me wonder what it meant to be a dragon. But now I realize that who I am is not the same as what I am. I may have been born a dragon, but Equestria and my pony friends have taught me how to be kind, loyal, and true! I'm proud to call Ponyville my home, and to have my pony friends as my family.
Yours truly,
Spike
Aww. [chuckles] Hey, welcome to the family, Peewee! Stick with me. I've got plenty to teach you about being a pony.
Calling all Pegasus ponies! Meeting tonight!
[reading] "Mandatory meeting for all Ponyville Pegasi."
Library, tonight. Be cool or be mule. No offense.
None taken.
All right, go on in, find a seat. Ohh... You too, Fluttershy. Come on, let's go.
Every living thing depends on the life-giving nourishment of rainwater, and it is up to Cloudsdale to provide rain-filled clouds to every corner of Equestria. But how, one pony might ask, does Cloudsdale gather all this extra water? Tornado power! That's right, Pegasi-driven tornado power. A team of Pegasi combine their wing power to create a jumbo tornado, powerful enough to pull water out of the local reservoir and funnel it all the way up to Cloudsdale. Remember, Pegasi, your jumbo tornado must reach a minimum of eight hundred wing power to lift that water up to Cloudsdale. So, the next time you're wondering "Where does all that extra rainwater come from?", just remem–
Uh... intermission?
So, here's the scoop. Cloudsdale has chosen our own highland reservoir as a source of the rainwater they need for all of Equestria. And you know what that means. It means it's up to Ponyville's Pegasi to bring that water up to Cloudsdale.
Not only that, but Spitfire, captain of the Wonderbolts, will be here to oversee the water transfer and record our top tornado windspeed. Now last year, Fillydelphia broke the windspeed record with a top speed of nine hundred and ten wing power. But I think we can do better. I think we can get a top speed over a thousand!
...if each and every pony trains, and trains hard to get their wing power numbers up.
That coughing better be from a popcorn kernel, Thunderlane. Nopony's getting sick on my watch. So, are we gonna train hard?
Yeah!
Are we gonna be strong?
Yeah!
Are we gonna be fast?
Yeah!
Record-smashing fast?
YEAH!
Who's with me?
Fluttershy!
Stretch those glutes, Flitter! Nice flexibility, Cloud Chaser. A... little too much flexibility, Blossomforth. Uh, somepony give Blossomforth a hoof. Let's see some faster trotting, Thunderlane! Good pace, Silverspeed! [blows whistle] Keep it up! We're gonna need all the wing power we can get to break that record!
Good work, everypony! [under her breath] Everypony except Fluttershy.
[knocking] Fluttershy? I know you're in there! You're avoiding tornado duty and I want to know why! Fluttershy, open–
Fluttershy, what happened to you?
Oh, you poor thing. You know, there's only one cure for pony pox.
I know, plenty of bed–
Cold water! Those pony pox are clearing right up.
Oh, y'know, all of a sudden, I'm, I'm starting to feel better. [laughs nervously] I'll just get out of these robes and– ow! Oh, my wing, oh, ow, it's hurt. I guess I can't fly after all–
Messed up wing, huh? Stop horsing around, Fluttershy. We've got a lot of training to do. Come on now, what's going on?
Well, y'see, uh, well... Oh, Rainbow Dash, I just can't do it! I can't fly!
What are you talking about? Just last week you went into that wicked nose dive to save that falling baby bird right before it hit the ground!
But that was different, that was an emergency! This whole tornado thing, it's more like a performance, and you know how I hate performing in front of others. Don't you remember flight camp? I couldn't gallop hard or fly fast, not with everypony looking at me!
It wasn't that bad.
You're right, Rainbow Dash, it wasn't bad. It was horrible!
[voiceover] The other foals used to tease me, a lot!
I just can't risk that sort of humiliation again.
Suck it up, Fluttershy! This is no time for– I mean, confidence or no confidence, I'm gonna need every Pegasus to break the record, including you. I need every ounce of wing power I can get.
Oh, I-I don't think so, Rainbow Dash...
[sighs] Thanks anyway.
Wait. I'll do it.
You will?
I will.
You're game?
I'm game.
Alright!
What exactly does this machine do?
This is an anemometer. It measures your accelerative velocity and translates it into wing power, thus gauging your cumulative H2O anti-gravitational potential. Any other questions?
Yeah. [to Spike] What exactly does this machine do?
It tells you how fast you're flying and how strong your wings are.
Ohhhh... Okay... I see...
Is that you again, Thunderlane? Please, we need to have a germ-free environment.
It wasn't me, it was Blossomforth.
Don't worry, Twilight. Thunderlane's just cooking up an excuse to spend tornado day in bed. Why don't you get over here and be our first test flyer, Thunderlane?
We have 9.3 wing power.
Wow! That's fast!
YEAH!
16.5 wing power!
Now listen up! If each of you can get your numbers up to at least 10.0 wing power by the end of the week, we'll no doubt set a new tornado speed record. We'll be number one!
[echoing] Fluttershy, Fluttershy, Fluttershy can hardly fly...
[hushed] Tell her!
[hushed] No, you tell her!
[hushed] No, you!
Um... great job, Fluttershy! You measured, uh, uh, .5.
.5? Isn't that like... less than one?
Ow!
Fluttershy, wait! So some punks poked a little fun at you and you got stage fright, big deal. You aren't gonna go quit just because of that, are you?
[crying] Yes!
But I need you!
I'm sorry, Rainbow Dash, I just [between sobs] don't have the courage right now...
[sniffles] Oh, thank you, but I'm afraid a couple of little acorns won't solve my big flying problem.
I tried, but you should've seen those ponies laughing at me...
I know it's important to have confidence in myself...
Yes, yes, I do remember. The river was swelling...
...and you were scared...
...yes, I did tell you to never give up... and to believe in yourself. You're right, my friends. I shouldn't give up. I will get my confidence up and show everypony that I am a good flyer! A great flyer!
That's wonderful, Flitter. Much better than yesterday.
This is crazy awesome! We're gonna smash that record!
What did he say?
Do I look like I speak squirrel?
What's that?
2.3? 2.3?! That has to be some kind of mistake! I worked so hard!
Fluttershy, that's a huge improvement!
You did awesome, Fluttershy.
No, I didn't. I thought I'd gotten over my nerves, but they still got the best of me! There's no way I'll fly with 10.0 wing power tomorrow!
So you won't fly with 10.0 wing power. Every bit counts!
How would you feel if everypony else was flying with 10.0 wing power and you were flying with 2.5?
Actually, it was only 2.3, and– ow!
Well, uh... I'd feel... um...
Exactly! Humiliated! [between sobs] I'm sorry, Rainbow Dash, I just can't do it!
It's okay, Rainbow Dash, you've still got plenty of wing power for your tornado. You'll be able to lift tons of water up to Cloudsdale!
[sighs] If only there was a way to lift Fluttershy out of the dumps.
Are we ready to do this?
Look!
Lazy Thunderlane! Where is he?! He's been trying to get out of tornado duty the whole time with his fake coughing and all. Rumble, where's your lazy brother?
He's got the feather flu. He's down at Ponyville Hospital.
But he's not the only one.
Let's see, with those eight sick Pegasi out with the feather flu... [gasp] Oh no!
Don't tell me we won't be able to break the windspeed record?
No...
Phew!
...You might not have enough wing power to create a tornado powerful enough to lift the water to Cloudsdale!
Well, should we pack up?
No. Of course not. Forget the record. Cloudsdale still needs water! Okay, everypony! Let's give it all we've got! On the sound of the horn, we take off!
You think they're gonna make it to eight hundred wing power?
I sure hope so! One hundred and fifty wing power. Two hundred and fifty wing power. Five hundred wing power!
Seven hundred and fifty wing power!
Twilight!
Fluttershy! What are you doing here?!
I figured... if I couldn't help Rainbow Dash with the tornado... the least I could do was offer moral support!
She could sure use it, considering eight Pegasi are sick with the feather flu!
Oh no! That's terrible news!
Yaa– oof!
Are you okay?
[muffled] I'm fine!
Oh, you were so close to the eight hundred wing power minimum! I'm sorry, Rainbow Dash.
Rbbbb– We've got to try again!
But you've pushed your crew to their limit already!
If you break apart again, somepony could get hurt! You should quit, it's not safe!
No! One more time! I've gotta know we gave it our all! If I'm going down, I'm going down flying! C'mon, ponies, let's make this happen!
YEAH!
Okay, here we go... One hundred wing power! Two hundred! Five hundred!
Stay in position! Flap those wings! Faster!
Seven hundred! Seven hundred and fifty wing power!
[yelps] They fell apart right after this!
Oh, I'm too nervous to look!
C'mon! Just a little harder! I can see the water trying to funnel through!
Seven ninety five! We are so close! Fluttershy, they need you up there!
I won't make a difference!
You can make a difference!
My measly 2.3 wing power is still too little!
It's sticking at seven ninety five! I don't know if they've got any more in 'em!
Do it for Equestria! Do it for Rainbow Dash! Do it for yourself!
It's moving! She's doing it! Seven ninety eight! She surpassed her best wing power number!
No!
"Serenity": What was that?
"Slipstream": I think it was Fluttershy!
She did it! She did it! They all did it!
Whoa, girl, take it easy!
Whuh, what? Did we do it?
Yeah, we did it! You did it!
Ah!
Great job, Fluttershy, that was awesome!
Yeah, we couldn't have done it without you.
Nice job, Rainbow Dash. You may not have set a new record, but you showed a lot of guts.
Thanks, but if you wanna talk guts, then you've gotta give it to my number one flyer, Fluttershy! Let's hear it for Fluttershy!
Dear Princess Celestia,
Sometimes you can feel like what you have to offer is too little to make a difference, but today, I learned that everypony's contribution is important, no matter how small. If you just keep your head high, do your best, and believe in yourself, anything can happen.
Can you believe Featherweight got his cutie mark? Featherweight! Before us!
Great cutie mark, Featherweight!
[chuckles] Looking good!
I give up...
I've got it! The answer to all our problems!
The Foal Free Press? How's the school paper gonna get us our cutie marks?
Move your caboose!
Uh-oh. That's Granny Smith. Gotta run!
Maybe there's something to this newspaper idea.
Guess it's worth a shot...
Apple Bloom. Your newspaper idea was nothing but a big bust.
We tried everything, from papier-mâché to making birds' nests, and nothing worked.
What's so funny?
What I meant was, we should write for the paper! We can get our cutie marks as journalists!
Okay, class, see you tomorrow! Oh, for those of you who want to join the newspaper staff, stay here, because we're meeting right now!
Cutie marks in journalism!
Such a good idea.
Welcome, everypony. Now, as you know, our editor-in-chief graduated last year–
Oh, oh, oh, ohohohoh!
Yes?
What's an editor-in-chief?
Good question, Sweetie Belle. I like those reporter's instincts. The Foal Free Press is a student-run paper. I'm only involved as an adviser, so the editor-in-chief is the pony in charge, from choosing the stories to making sure it gets to press on time. Now, as I said, we have a new editor this year!
Diamond Tiara?!
Hm.
I'll leave you alone now to discuss everypony's assignments. Have fun!
Alright, listen up. The Foal Free Press is a joke.
Huh?
Nopony at this school takes it seriously. Well I, the editor-in-chief in charge, am going to deliver us to newfound glory!
Yay!
First things first. Where's the staff photographer? Get out there and document everything. I'll decide what's important.
The rest of you, I want hard-hitting news and interesting think pieces. No more Namby-Pamby stories like last year's editor.
"Ruby Pinch": But Namby-Pamby was a great editor.
Well, there's a new regime now, and I want juicy stories. The juicier, the better! Now get out there and report!
Let's get out of here, girls. Maybe we can try packing boxes again.
But this could be our last chance to earn our cutie marks! If we really are supposed to be journalists, isn't it worth a little grief?
I guess you're right. We can take a little bit of Diamond Tiara for a lifetime of cutie marks.
C'mon! Let's go get these marks!
[voiceover] My first story's going to be an exclusive interview.
[voiceover] I saw a brand new nest of baby birds the other day. I bet our readers would eat up a sweet story like that!
[voiceover] Granny Smith has all sorts of great stories! I reckon I'll do a piece on the history of Ponyville.
I hope you've got something, because everything so far is unusable. "Baby Birds Born"? "Rarity's Hot New Hat"? "Ponyville: The Early Years"!? Oh! I don't know what you call this, but it sure isn't news!
We just... thought...
Get something else on my desk by the end of the day, and it better be juicy!
Now what? Do you know what I had to do to get that story?
Oh, you don't even wanna know what I had to sit through.
Oh! Get it off me, Snails!
Eh, you get it off me, Snips?
Aah! Stop it! You are making it worse! Nah! Oh, great.
Aah!
Get it off! Get it off!
[giggles] Hey, Featherweight, c'mere! [giggles] Take a few pictures of this, then meet me during lunch. Girls, I have our story.
"Noi": "Snips and Snails in Bubblegum Veils! And that's when the biggest jokester in school really stuck his hoof in it – literally!"
"Green Daze": The Foal Free Press is usually just boring news and stuff.
So funny!
Our mothers always told us we'd end up in the papers someday.
Your column is a sensation! I don't want you doing news anymore. I want more columns like this. Columns about ponies and their private lives, the things they do when they think they're alone. You three are my new gossip columnists! And I love the way you signed it! "Gabby Gums"... [sigh] That was a stroke of genius!
We couldn't fit all of our names, so we decided to create one for all three of us.
Well, I want more Gabby Gums! Nice work, girls.
But we sure seem to have a gift for gossip.
If we can write a few more of these Gabby Gums columns, we'll earn our cutie marks for sure!
Woo-hoo!
Scootaloo? Do you have anything?
Nope.
Apple Bloom?
[sighs] Sorry.
Let's face it, nothing very juicy happens at this school.
We're doomed.
Ohh, Sweetie Belle... Was she raised in a barn or something? [gasps] Oh, you really shouldn't be snooping, Rarity... Oh, but it's so much fun, Rarity. Hello... what's this? [giggles] Gum on their bum! [laughs] Too rich!
Can you please keep it down with all the laughter? I'm trying to– hey!
Bleh! I, I was just–
Are you snooping through my saddlebag?
How dare you!
Oh, but this Gabby Gums column is so funny!
You actually like the school paper?
It's so much juicier than anything in the boring old Ponyville Express. Could I borrow this to show my friends?
Your friends would wanna read the Foal Free Press?
Oh, they'd just love Gabby Gums! Who is she, anyway? I've never heard of her before. Is she a new–
We gave up too quickly, girls. Forget trying to squeeze stories out of this school. We need to expand!
We can find all kinds of great gossip out there in Ponyville!
We'll need to tell Featherweight to start working overtime.
Sweetie Belle, you're a genius!
"Pound and Pumpkin Cake Trip to the Store Ends in Tears." Gabby Gums comes through again!
[panting] The Ponyville news stand wants to carry the Foal Free Press! Ponies keep coming by and asking for it!
Send 'em twenty copies, and if they run out of those, we'll send 'em twenty more! You three are doing a great job for this paper. Keep those columns coming!
This is great!
Oh, this is the life, isn't it, girls? The best hooficure I've ever had!
[voice vibrating] You said it, ooh...
[sighs] I don't know if I've ever been so relaxed.
You guys!
Aaah!
The new Gabby Gums just came out! "The Great and Powerful Trixie's Secrets Revealed!"
We already read that one, Rainbow Dash. Come on, relax, have a hooficure, it feels amazing.
[swallows] Did you forget who you're talking to? The day I get a hooficure is the day I turn in my daredevil license. Besides, I haven't read this Gabby Gums yet.
Well, do it quietly, will ya? [sigh] Some of us are trying to unwind!
I like Gabby Gums too, but don't you think she can be a little mean?
She's not mean, Twilight, she's a hoot!
"Celestia Just Like Us"? Gabby Gums doesn't value anypony's privacy.
Oh, lighten up, Twilight, it's nothing but harmless gossip!
Yeah, Twilight, I mean listen to this one. "Mayor Not Naturally Gray!" The Mayor in a mane dyeing scandal? Who wouldn't wanna read that?
I just can't help feeling sorry for the ponies featured in her columns. It's gotta be a little embarrassing.
Are you kidding? Do you know how awesome it is to get your name in the paper?
Rainbow, why don't you join me in one of these delicious hooficures?
It's that good, huh? Well, maybe just one little hoof.
[yelps] Forget it, I don't like ponies touching my hooves. Man... I'd love it if Gabby Gums did a story on me.
She did one on me.
What?!
Aaaah!
"Exclusive! Local Dragon Tells All! Spike opens up about Canterlot, naps, and his favorite jams!"
It's our best column yet!
More like your worst column yet! Gabby Gums didn't become the biggest thing in Ponyville with namby-pamby stories like this!
[sighs] Yeah, she's right. This column is a little softer than our usual gossip.
Were you guys feeling guilty about all the gossip too? Like... maybe we could be hurting other ponies' feelings?
Yeah, I didn't wanna say anything because everypony loves Gabby Gums so much, but... I was sorta hoping we could start writing more stories like this one.
Me too.
If we're gonna get our cutie marks, we've got to give the ponies what they want.
Awww...
"Applejack Asleep on the Job!" Can y'all believe this?! And this one: "Big McIntosh – What's He Hiding?" Who the hay does this Gabby Gums think she is?!
Listen to this one. "Twilight Sparkle: I Was a Canterlot Snob. A well-placed scaly source close to the prissy pony says Twilight Sparkle thinks Ponyville is nothing but muddy roads and low-class rubes." Spike!
How could you say such a thing?
Well, I didn't! Gabby Gums made that up! I never said anything like that!
Everypony, please! She's just a harmless schoolpony engaged in a little harmless gossip. You're really making too big a deal out of this.
But it's all lies! Gabby Gums prints whatever she wants! She doesn't care whose reputation she destroys! "Fluttershy Has Tail Extensions!" "Pinkie Pie is an Out-of-Control Party Animal!"
Oh, look! According to this one, the Cakes are breaking up!
Mrs. We are?!
[muffled] Well, my life is officially over. [normal] Gabby Gums has made it to Cloudsdale.
"Rainbow Dash: Speed Demon or Super Softie?"?!
I grabbed as many copies as I could, but it was too late! [crying] I'm a laughing stock!
See, Rarity? Your so-called 'harmless gossip' can be very hurtful!
Honestly, you ponies have no sense of humor. So she tweaks a few ponies every now and then, maybe they deser– [gasps] I'll destroy her! "The Drama-Queen Diaries"... She's reprinted my diary! How could Gabby Gums possibly get access to my private diary?!
We've got to put a stop to this once and for all! Sweetie Belle's on the newspaper staff. Maybe she knows who Gabby Gums is.
[gasps] My sister would never associate with anyone as beastly as Gabby Gums! I resent you even suggesting such a thing, Twilight! Why, she's the most innocent, most lovely–
–most evil pony in Equestria! How could my own sister steal my private diary? How could my own sister be... Gabby Gums?
Et tu, Gabby Gums?!
[gasps] You know?! How'd you find out?!
The gilded pages of your betrayal!
Oh, yeah.
How could you do this to me?! You stole my secret diary and published it for all the world to read! Gossip can be a very hurtful thing. It is an invasion of privacy, just like when I snooped through your saddlebag. You didn't like that much, did you?
No...
What is important is that you understand how your column makes the ponies that you're writing about feel!
I do understand, and we've all been feeling guilty, but we just want our cutie marks so badly!
Do you really think that writing nasty things and making everypony feel horrible is your destiny?
Well, when you put it that way...
No! I won't let you quit!
But the gossip we've been printing is hurting everypony's feelings!
Feelings?! I don't care about feelings! Gabby Gums is my bread and butter, and I'm not gonna let you goody-two-horseshoes take that away from me!
We're sorry, Diamond Tiara, but we've made our decision.
Yeah, you can't force us to keep gossiping.
When you see these... you may not want to quit after all.
I told Featherweight to document everything...
...And that's exactly what he did.
[gasps] Gimme those!
Sorry, girls, property of the Foal Free Press. And if Gabby Gums really does go into retirement, I'll need something to fill that empty column space. Now get out there and bring me more Gabby Gums!
We'll find a way out of this, girls.
Maybe Rainbow Dash will have a story for us. She's always good for some gossip.
Rainbow Dash! Hey, Rainbow Dash!
Well, if it isn't Gabby Gums!
You heard too, huh?
Are you kidding? Everypony in town knows it's you three.
Don't suppose you'd let us write a column on you, huh?
Oh, hi, Angel. Is Fluttershy home?
[muffled] Hey, what gives?
A-ha! [muffled] Twilight thought you might try to show your faces around here, so she put up a force field.
Aw, c'mon, Applejack! You're not mad at us too, are you?
Eeyup.
You're not even gonna talk to us?
Nnope.
You should be ashamed of yourself, humiliatin' your sister 'n' me like that. We don't wanna talk to any o' y'all right now so take your little gossip column and your embarrassing photographs and just go away!
We've ruined all of our friendships and we still don't have our cutie marks!
This is the worst day ever!
Oh yeah? Wait 'til tomorrow, our most embarrassing moments are about to be published for everypony to laugh at.
So what do we do?
I don't know, but we're not leaving this clubhouse until we think of something!
That's it, Gabby Gums is out of time. Run these instead. I want this paper on every street corner in Ponyville!
"Shady Daze": Yes, ma'am!
Stop the presses!
"Shady Daze": Uh... they haven't started yet.
We have a Gabby Gums column!
Hmph, you're lucky I'm nice.
This better not happen again, or else.
[sighs] Well done, Diamond Tiara. You've averted yet another crisis with your amazing diplomatic skills. [gasps] "An Open Letter to Ponyville by Gabby Gums"?! What is this?! Ooh, they're not gonna get away with this! I'll publish those photos tomorrow! They messed with the wrong pony!
To the citizens of Ponyville,
For some time now, you've been reading this column to get the latest dirt and the hottest buzz. But this will be my final piece. We want to apologize for the pain and embarrassment we've caused.
Y'see, I'm actually three little fillies, Sweetie Belle, Apple Bloom, and Scootaloo.
As the popularity of our column grew, we got swept up in the hype. We knew that what we were doing didn't feel quite right, but we ignored the guilt because everypony seemed to want to read what we were writing.
From now on, we promise to respect everypony else's privacy, and we won't engage in hurtful gossip any more.
All we can do is ask for your forgiveness, Ponyville.
Signing off for the very last time,
XOXO, Gabby Gums
And for the next editor of the Foal Free Press...
...here's your new editor-in-chief, Featherweight!
Ugh! Him? But what about me?!
"Shady Daze": Here ya go! I've been promoted to staff photographer!
Marzipan Mascarpone Meringue Madness. You've really outdone yourselves, Mr. and Mrs. Cake. This is sure to be the winning entry of this year's national dessert competition!
Mrs. Oh, thank you, Pinkie!
Mr. And thanks for transporting it all the way to Canterlot for us.
Absolutely! It's my honor and I–
Uh, beg pardon, but could we maybe move things along? This here cake's a mite heavy. Right, Big McIntosh?
[grunts] Eeyup...!
Alrighty then, Big Mac! To the train depot! That's it, Big Mac, nice and slow. This is precious cargo you're carrying.
Mr. Yes, it took months of planning and testing.
Mrs. I would hate for it to–
Mr. Cake and Mrs. Fall!
Don't worry, Mr. and Mrs. Cake. Rainbow Dash, Fluttershy, a little pegassistance? I'll get it there safely, you'll see!
Mrs. Ahahah, oh... of course, Pinkie.
Mr. We never doubted you.
Twilight, can I see you a second? A nice protective spell as extra insurance. [laughs] Better safe than sorry. AJ, Rarity, one last thing? All right, everypony, we're in the home stretch here.
See, Mr. and Mrs. Cake? I got it here without a hitch! Now all we have to do is get it... in?
[sigh] Thank you all for helping me get the cake safely on the dessert car.
Thank you for inviting us all to go with you to Canterlot for the National Dessert Competition.
I'm sure the festivities will be just lovely.
Phooey on the festivities! I can't wait to try all those tasty treats!
Well, the tastiest treat of all is sure to be the Cakes' Marzipan Mascarpone Meringue Madness. All that rich creamy goodness of the marzipan, combined with the tart tanginess of the mascarpone, blended perfectly with the smooth, silky sweetness of the meringue. That's why I call the Marzipan Mascarpone Meringue Madness the "MMMM".
MMMM.
Exactly. It's the most delicious delectable delightful de-lovely cake in Equestria, and it's sure to win first prize.
Zis is not so, for I, Gustave le Grand, do challenge your crude cake to a duel of delectable delicacies against my exceptionally Exquisite Éclairs! They will undoubtedly strike down all ze competition, winning first prize and crowning me le champion.
Not a chance, le Grand.
Donut Joe! What are you doing in Ponyville?
Hello. What's your name?
I am Mulia Mild. Behold, my Chocolate Mousse Moose. It will trample all your treats, be given first prize, and make me the greatest chef in Equestria.
Madame Mild, you and your mousse moose are mistaken.
Your frou-frou éclairs will never defeat my donuts!
The Cakes' Marzipan Mascarpone Meringue Madness is going to win!
Well, it sure looks like we're in for a delicious competition tomorrow. Maybe we should all settle in for a good night's sleep.
Hmph.
Nyahh.
[yawns] I gotta admit I'm pretty beat.
Yeah, I'm gonna hit the hay myself.
Wait! Didn't you hear those chefs? We have to protect "MMMM".
MMMM?
Mmm-hmmm. I know for super sure that "MMMM" is the best dessert in all of Equestria, and I know that they know it too.
So...
So... one of them is going to sabotage the Cakes' cake tonight! You have to help me stand guard!
Pinkie... you're overreacting.
Yeah, those chefs aren't going to do your cake any harm.
But they are! I just know it.
Fine! If you want to stand guard, go for it. We're going to bed.
I'll show them. I'll stay up all night and protect you. Nothing and nopony will stop me from keeping you safe.
Huh? Stop, you saboteur! I have you now! Wha? A-ha! Ahh?! Oh! Thank Celestia you're okay! But one of those bakers is mixing up something bad, so I'm not leaving you again no matter what.
Huh? Who turned out the moon? Don't go near that cake, thief!
Stop, thief!
[snores] Huh? What? [gasp] The cake! Oh, MMMM, you look mmmm-marvelous.
Whoa!
I know. I think some congratulations are in order for a job well done.
Um, you better hold off on giving yourself an award just yet, Pinkie. Look.
What is it?
What happened?
It's the Marzipan Mascarpone Meringue Madness, it's been [crying] mutilated!
Now we just need to find out who done it.
You mean, who did it.
Exactly. Who did-done-dood it.
Well, having read many mystery novels, I know that the only way to discover the culprit is to investigate.
Exactly.
And as chief detective, that's exactly what I'm gonna do.
Uh, you're investigatin'?
Yes! And Twilight shall be my lowly assistant who asks silly questions with obvious answers.
Fine, Pinkie. Should we start looking for clues?
Perfect silly question, my dear Twilight. Because the obvious answer is...
Yes?
No! 'Cause I know who did it.
Pinkie, how could you possibly know?
How could I possibly not know? Clearly this dastardly deed was done by the baker, who knew their dessert could not measure up to the mastery of the Marzipan Mascarpone Meringue Madness. I guess you feared your éclairs lacked flair, Gustave!
Thus, destroying the cake and the Cakes' chance of winning the National Dessert Competition.
But it makes no sense!
What do you mean, lowly assistant?
Well, first, if you were tied to the train tracks, how are you now here?
Huh... Guess that isn't a totally silly question.
And second, the cake hasn't been sliced. It's been bitten. Just look at the teeth marks!
Hm... You're right, my fine fellow. Gustave le Grand is clearly in the clear, which means the "MMMM" was destroyed by another baker. A baker who's donuts are do-nots. That's right, it was Joe!
[voiceover] Or as he's known the spy world, Mane. Con Mane.
Crushing the Cakes' chances to win!
Pinkie! There is no laser beam security system! And Joe is not sleek, stealthy Con Mane! He's big, gruff, and messy!
Hey!
Although, you would look rather dapper in a tuxedo.
Huh... You may be right, lowly assistant.
May be?
Now that I'm taking a closer look at these desserts, I see that one simply cannot look me in the eye.
Pinkie... that moose is a mousse!
Yes, and the mule behind the moose panicked when she saw the mastery of the "MMMM".
So you're saying that the culprit is...
Mulia Mild!
Putting an end to the Cakes' dreams of taking first prize. Huh, I hope you're proud of yourself, Mulia.
Pinkie, stop! This is ridiculous! Look at her!
[sigh] I guess you're right...
Thank you!
But I was so sure that it was one of the other bitter bakers that destroyed the "MMMM". That way, their delicious dessert would reign supreme. I mean, just look at Joe's Donutopia. It's a spectacular city of donutty delight, topped temptingly in sprinklicious sprinkles. And Gustave's éclairs look incredibly edible, with glistening glaziness. But then there's Mulia Mild's Mousse Moose. [sighs] why, this mouth-wateringly marvelous mousse moose tempts the taste buds with its silky, smooth, yummy-nummy, chocolateyness. So why did this criminal devour the Marzipan Mascarpone Meringue Madness while leaving this trio of tasty treats untouched?
[gasp] Now I have no idea who do-doned it!
This mystery gets more mysterious every minute.
Well, you have to stop the wild accusations and get to the truth. Everypony go back to your cars while we do a little investigating. Okay, Pinkie, in order to really solve this mystery, we're going to have to find clues. Now you were here at the scene of the crime all night.
Huh! You're not accusing me, are you?
No! But maybe you saw something that will help us.
I saw a silhouette in the moonlight!
Good... Let's retrace your steps.
And then I chased the culprit down the train towards the caboose, but when I got there, he was gone.
Hm... A-ha! Our first clue. I think I know who did it, Pinkie.
Already?
Yes, but I need more evidence to confirm. Tell me what happened next.
I heard somepony else in the dessert car and chased them up to the engine. But when I got there, all I saw was the conductor shoveling coal.
The conductor, huh? [gasp] But that doesn't make any sense. What happened next, Pinkie?
Well... I went back to the dessert car.
Yes?
The curtains mysteriously closed, all on their own.
Interesting. Anything else?
I heard hoofsteps, a loud thud...
...and then they were gone! When I opened the curtains, I saw that the portrait by the door was all crooked.
Oh my, what is that?
What next Pinkie?
That's it. I was here guarding the cake the rest of the night. I mean... I slept by the cake the rest of the night.
And when you woke up, half the cake was gone?
Exactly.
By Jove, I think I've got it. Call everypony back. We have a cake culprit to catch.
[stuttering] Why are we all here again?
I bet you're wondering why you're all here again.
She's good.
We have discovered the true culprit of this cake carnage.
But how?
Well, you see, when committing a crime, it's crucial that one never leaves behind clues, especially an obvious clue like... this.
A-ha! A blue feather! I knew it was you, Gustave le Grand!
Pinkie, Gustave doesn't have blue feathers.
No, 'cause he's been dyeing them!
No, Pinkie. Remember how when you chased the suspect to the caboose, they suddenly disappeared? That's because they flew away. But the thief did leave a little something behind, didn't you, Rainbow Dash?
I-I don't even like cake!
So Rainbow Dash did it! Case solved!
Case not solved, because when we went to the engine, I saw the conductor's hat. And inside the hat was... this.
So it was you! That pink hair came from your rainbow-colored mane!
I don't have pink in my mane, Pinkie!
So you're wearing a wig?
Ow! Cut it out!
Pinkie, remember? You chased a pony to the engine, where you thought you saw the conductor shoveling coal, but that wasn't the conductor at all. It was... Fluttershy!
[gasp] Oh my.
You're goin' down, Fluttershy!
Pinkie! But then another clue confounded my suspicions. You were guarding the cake when the curtains mysteriously closed. But that's no mystery, that's magic. But when the thief tried to make their great escape, they left a little addition to the portrait. Has anypony else noticed that Rarity is wearing her hair rather differently today?
[gasp] What? Is it a crime to change one's style now and again? Why, I think it's a crime not to.
Really?
Fine, I'm guilty! [crying] I wear false eyelashes! Oh, and I took a bite of the cake.
So did I.
Aw nuts, so did I.
You just made it sound so delectable.
So tasty.
And boy was it!
I only meant to take a little, lady-like bite.
And it was so good.
Yeah, I just dove right in!
But I'm really really sorry.
Terribly sorry.
Sorry, Pinkie.
That's okay. At least this mystery is finally solved.
But it isn't. We figured out who ate the Marzipan Mascarpone Meringue Madness, but we still don't know who devoured the other bakers' goods.
You're right, Twilight. You know what we have to do?
Well... Yes, I do. Do you?
Look for clues! [sniffing] Uh-huh, uh-huh, uh-huh.
Well, Pinkie. Did you find the devourer of the desserts?
I most certainly did. It was none other than... the bakers!
First of all, Gustave has mousse in his moustache! And Joe has éclair in his hair! And Mulia has sprinkles in her wrinkles!
What do you say, bakers?
Oh, I am so sorry, Mulia, but Pinkie made your mousse moose sound... très magnifique.
And Pinkie's description of your éclairs really did make 'em sound scrumptious.
And the way she spoke of your Donutopia, ohh, was too delectable to resist.
Well, everypony, we finally have the mystery solved.
Yes, but now we don't have any desserts to enter into ze contest!
I think we can fix that. Come on!
Dear Princess Celestia,
Today I learned that it is not good to jump to conclusions. You have to find out all the facts before saying somepony did something. If you don't, you could end up blaming somepony for something they never did. This could hurt their feelings, and it can make you look really foolish. So from now on, I will always make sure to get all the facts.
How's that for a lesson, Princess Celestia?
Care for a bite?
I don't mind if I do.
Mmmmm.
Ahh!
It is gorgeous out. Just gorgeous!
Dear Twilight, I am sure you are as excited as I am about the upcoming wedding in Canterlot. [to the others] Wedding? [reading] I will be presiding over the ceremony, but would very much like you and your friends to help with the preparations for this wonderful occasion. Fluttershy, I would like you and your songbird choir to provide the music.
Oh my goodness! What an honor!
Pinkie Pie, I can think of no one more qualified than you to host the reception.
Hip, hip, hooray!
Applejack, you will be in charge of the catering for the reception.
Well, color me pleased as punch!
Rainbow Dash–
...I would very much appreciate it if you could perform a sonic rainboom as the bride and groom complete their "I do"'s.
Yes!
Rarity, you will be responsible for designing the dresses for the bride and her bridesmaids.
Princess Celestia wants me to– [unintelligible] ...wedding dress? For a Canterlot wedding... I, ah, ooh, oooh!
And as for you, Twilight, you will be playing the most important role of all: Making sure that everything goes as planned. See you all very soon. Yours, Princess Celestia. But... I don't understand. Who's getting married?
Oh, wait! Uh, I was probably supposed to give you this one first.
Princess Celestia cordially invites you to the wedding of Princess Mi Amore Cadenza and... [gasp] My brother?!
Your brother's getting married? Congratulations, Twilight! That's great news!
Um, Twilight? Are you okay?
Sorry, it's just that Shining Armor and I have always been so close. He's my B.B.B.F.F!
Big Brother Best Friend Forever?
Ohhh!
Before I came here and learned the importance of friendship, Shining Armor was the only pony I ever really accepted as a friend. When I was just a filly, I found it rather silly To see how many other ponies I could meet I had my books to read, didn't know that I would ever need Other ponies to make my life complete
But there was one colt that I cared for I knew he would be there for me
My big brother, best friend forever! Like two peas in a pod, we did everything together
He taught me how to fly a kite (Best friend forever!) We never had a single fight (We did everything together!) We shared our hopes, we shared our dreams I miss him more than I realized It seems...
[Applejack, Fluttershy, Pinkie Pie, Rainbow Dash, and Rarity] Your big brother, best friend forever Like two peas in a pod, you did everything together
And though he's, oh, so far away I hoped that he would stay My big brother best friend Forever... Forever...
As one of your P.F.F.'s...
Pony Friends Forever...
Ohhh!
...I wanna tell you that I think your brother sounds like a real good guy.
He is pretty special. I mean, they don't let just anypony be captain of the Royal Guard.
[chirp] So let me get this straight. We're helping out with the wedding of not only a princess, but a captain of the Royal Guard?
I guess we are.
Ooh, ooh, oooh!
A sonic rainboom? At a wedding?! Can you say "best wedding ever"?!
[gasp] [echoing] Best wedding ever!
So you all get to help with the big fancy wedding, but I'm the one who gets to host the bachelor party! I have just one question. What's a bachelor party?
Why the long face, sugarcube?
I'm just thinking about Shining Armor. Ever since I moved to Ponyville, we've been seeing each other less and less. And now that he's starting a new family with this "Princess Mi Amore Ca-whatshername", we'll probably never see each other.
Come on, now. You're his sister. He'll always make time for you.
Couldn't seem to make time to tell me he was getting married.
We're here, we're here!
Whoa, what's with all the guards?
I'm sure they're just taking the necessary precautions. Royal weddings do bring out the strangest ponies.
Now, let's get going! We've got work to do!
And you've got a big brother to go congratulate.
Yeah. Congratulate. And then give him a piece of my mind.
I've got something to say to you, mister.
Twily! Ah, I've missed, you, kid. How was the train ride? I–
How dare you not tell me in person that you were getting married! I'm your sister, for pony's sake!
It's not my fault! Princess Celestia has requested a major increase in security. Didn't you see all the guards at the train station?
Yeah, there's a big wedding coming up. Maybe you heard about it?
It has nothing to do with the wedding. A threat has been made against Canterlot. We don't know who's responsible for it, but Princess Celestia asked that I help provide additional protection. This, you need to see.
[gasps] The burden of keeping Canterlot safe and secure rests squarely on my shoulders. Staying focused on the task at hand has been my top priority.
Okay, okay, I get it. You've got a really important job protecting all of Canterlot with a force field only you can conjure up. But still... how could you not tell me about something as big as your wedding? Am I not that important to you any more?
Hey. You're my little sister. Of course you're important to me. But I'd understand if you didn't want to be my best mare now.
You want me to be your best mare?
Well... yeah.
I'd be honored! But I'm still pretty ticked you're marrying somepony I don't even know! When did you even meet this "Princess Mi Amore Cadenza"?
Twily, Princess Mi Amore Cadenza is Cadance, your old foalsitter.
Cadance? As in the Cadance? As in the greatest foalsitter in all the history of foalsitters?!
[chuckles] You tell me. She was your foalsitter.
Ohmygoshohmygosh! Cadance is only the most amazing pony ever! She's beautiful, she's caring, she's kind...
I am so lucky to have you as my foalsitter!
I'm the one who's lucky, Twilight.
[scoffs] You're a princess. I'm just a regular old unicorn.
You are anything but a regular old unicorn.
I am going for a hooficure and that is that!
You are not going–
I am! I am!
I've already paid for three this month!
I... no! My girlfriends are all getting their hooves done! And you said that onl–
Please, we've done this at least–
Oh! Ho, ho, ho.
Oh, sweetie. You just did that face.
How many unicorns can just spread love wherever they go? I only know of one! And you're marrying her! [sing-song voice] You're marrying Cadance! You're marrying Cadance!
I hope I'm not interrupting anything important.
Cadance! Sunshine, sunshine, ladybugs awake! Clap your hooves and do a little shake!
What are you doing?
Cadance, it's me, Twilight!
[uninterested] Uh-huh.
I've gotta get back to my station, but Cadance will be checking in with all of you to see how things are going. I think I speak for both of us when I say we couldn't be more excited to have you here. Right, dear?
Absolutely.
Well, we'll let you get to it.
Cake, check. Ice sculpture, check. Best darn bite-size apple fritter you ever tasted...
Mmm. Check.
Hiya, Princess!
Please, call me Princess Mi Amore Cadenza.
Hiya, Princess Mi Amore Cadenza. You come to check out what's on the menu for your big day?
I have!
Aw, shucks. Why don't you take a few to go? [squee] I know how you brides can be. So busy, you forget to get a little somethin' in your belly.
Did... you see what she...
Oh, you should have seen how she acted back there. I don't know when she changed, but she changed! [imitating Cadance] "Please, call me Princess Mi Amore Cadenza."
Did I hear someone say my name?
[unenthusiastically] Uh-huh. Is my dress ready?
[stammers] Yes, of course. Um, I've been working on it ever since I was given the assignment, and I think you'll be pleased with the results! Mmm!
I was hoping for something with more beading and a longer train.
Oh, yes, of course.
And those should be a different color.
I think they're lovely.
Me too!
I love them.
Make them a different color.
Gee, maybe her name should be "Princess Demandy-pants."
Okay, let me see. We've been over the games... [rattles dice] ...the dances...
[gasps] I think this reception is gonna be perfect! Don't you?
Perfect! ...If we were celebrating a six-year-old's birthday party.
[gasps] Thank you!
Rest, my sister. As always, I will guard the night.
Bet I can guess what you're all thinking. Cadance is the absolute worst bride-to-be ever.
[high voice] Who, me?
Spike! That goes on the cake.
Twilight, whatever are you talking about? Cadance is an absolute gem!
Rarity, she was so demanding!
Well, of course she is! Why shouldn't she expect the very best on her wedding day?
Applejack, did you know that after she told you how much she just 'love-love-loved' your hors d'eouvres, she threw them in the trash?
Aw, she was probably just trying to spare my feelin's.
No, she was just being fake and totally insincere!
She did raise her voice at one of my birds during rehearsal.
See? Rude!
But he was singing really off-key.
Pinkie Pie, you had to have noticed how Cadance treated–
Never mind. Rainbow Dash, you're with me, right?
Sorry, Twi. Been too busy prepping for my sonic rainboom to pay much attention to the bride's bad attitude.
The princess is about to get married. I'm sure any negative behavior she might be displaying is simply the result of nerves.
And I'm sure it's the result of being an awful pony who doesn't deserve to even know Shining Armor, let alone marry him!
Think maybe you're bein' just a tiny bit possessive of your brother?
Uh-huh.
I am not being possessive, and I am not taking it out on Cadance! You're all just too caught up in your wedding planning to notice that maybe there shouldn't even [thumps table] be a wedding!
Twily! Your big brother's looking pretty good, don't you think? Huh. Everything okay?
We need to talk. I think you're making a big–
Oh, uh, hi, sweetie.
She sure has a way of sneaking up on people.
Could I speak to you for a moment, dear?
Better see what she wants.
[muffled] Look, we need to talk.
[muffled] I'm here to talk.
[muffled] It's about your sister, okay?
[muffled] I– look, look, she's okay–
[muffled] Just... listen to me, (over Shining Armor) alright? No no–
[muffled] I'm listening, I'm listening.
[muffled] I thought I made it perfectly clear I didn't want you to wear that.
This was my favorite uncle's.
And?
And I think I should wear it.
Are you disagreeing with me?
I guess I am– Ah!
Oh, dear. Are you getting another one of your headaches?
Gyah!
Feeling better?
[grunts] Mm-hmm.
She isn't just unpleasant and rude. She's downright evil!
Twilight!
Let her go.
Huh. It seemed like she had something else she wanted to tell me.
Who goes there? Stay indoors, Twilight Sparkle.
Shining Armor's in real trouble! You have to help–
Dresses? What are you–?
Can you believe it? We're gonna be Princess Mi Amore Cadenza's new bridesmaids!
New bridesmaids? What happened to her old bridesmaids?
She didn't say. But she did tell us that she would love-love-love it if we'd fill in for them.
Seeing as we've been working so hard and everything.
And you had your doubts about her.
Told you she was an absolute gem!
You sure this is what I should wear? Doesn't seem all that aerodynamic.
Hmm. I'll see what I can do.
Looks like I really am on my own.
Perfect, girls. No need to rush. Then of course, Cadance will enter.
I'll say a few words, and then we'll begin with the vows. Shining Armor, you'll get the ring from your best mare.
[deep voice] Do you? [high voice] I do!
Hey... has anypony seen Twilight?
I'm here! I'm not gonna stand next to her! And neither should you!
I'm sorry, I... I don't know why she's acting like this.
Maybe we should just ignore her.
You have to listen to me!
Oh, goodness! Are you okay?
I'm fine.
Ya sure about that?
I've got something to say! She's evil!
She's been horrible to my friends, she's obviously done something to her bridesmaids, and if that wasn't enough, I saw her put a spell on my brother that made his eyes go all [bells jangling]!
[starts crying] Why are you doing this to me?!
Because you're evil!
Evil! And if I don't stop you, you're gonna ruin my brother's life!
You want to know why my eyes went all [bells jangling]? Nuh! Because ever since I started having to perform my protection spell, I've been getting terrible migraines. Cadance hasn't been casting spells on me. She's been using her magic to heal me!
And she decided to replace her bridesmaids because she found out the only reason they wanted to be in the wedding was so that they could meet Canterlot royalty! And if she hasn't been on her best behavior with your [stomps hoof] friends, it's because with me being so busy, she's had to make all the decisions about the wedding!
I was just trying to–
She's been completely stressed out because it's really important to her that our big day be perfect! Something that obviously wasn't important to you! [gasps] Now if you'll excuse me, I have to go and comfort my bride. And you can forget about being my best mare. In fact, if I were you, I wouldn't show up to the wedding at all.
C'mon, y'all. Let's go check on the princess.
I was–
You have a lot to think about.
Maybe I was being overprotective. I could've gained a sister. But instead... I just lost a brother.
He was my big brother, best friend Forever... And now, we'll never do anything Together...
I'm sorry!
You will be.
"Princess Celestia cordially invites you to the wedding of Princess Mi Amore Cadenza and..." [gasp] My brother?
Twily! Ah, I've missed you, kid.
How dare you not tell me in person that you were getting married!
A threat has been made against Canterlot. Princess Celestia asked that I help provide additional protection.
But I'm still pretty ticked you're marrying somepony I don't even know.
Princess Mi Amore Cadenza is Cadance.
Cadance is only the most amazing pony ever!
I hope I'm not interrupting anything important.
Cadance, it's me! Twilight!
[uninterested] Uh-huh.
And I think I should wear it.
Are you disagreeing with me?
She's evil! I saw her put a spell on my brother that made his eyes go all [bells jangling]!
Cadance hasn't been casting spells on me. She's been using her magic to heal me! If I were you, I wouldn't show up to the wedding at all.
I just lost a brother. I'm sorry!
You will be.
[echoing] Hello? Is anyone there?
Where am I?
The caves beneath Canterlot, once home to greedy unicorns who wanted to claim the gems that could be found inside. And now, your prison.
Help! Help!
Plans? What plans?
The plans I have for your brother, of course.
Don't you dare do anything to my brother, you... you monster!
No! Wait! Ugh! Please! Don't hurt me! Twilight, it's me! Please, you have to believe me. I've been imprisoned like you. The Cadance who brought you down here was an imposter.
Likely story!
Sunshine, sunshine, ladybugs awake. Clap your hooves...
...and do a little shake.
You remember me!
Of course I do. How could I forget the filly I love to sit for the most?
We have to get out of here. We have to stop her!
This day is going to be perfect The kind of day of which I've dreamed since I was small Everypony will gather 'round Say I look lovely in my gown What they don't know is that I have fooled them all!
This day was going to be perfect The kind of day of which I've dreamed since I was small But instead of having cake With all my friends to celebrate My wedding bells, they may not ring for me at all…
I could care less about the dress I won't partake in any cake Vows, well I'll be lying when I say
That through any kind of weather I'll want us to be together The truth is I don't care for him at all
No I do not love the groom In my heart there is no room But I still want him to be all mine
We must escape before it's too late Find a way to save the day Hope, I'll be lying if I say
"I don't fear that I may lose him To one who wants to use him Not care for, love, and cherish him each day"
For I oh so love the groom All my thoughts he does consume Oh, Shining Armor, I'll be there very soon
Finally the moment has arrived For me to be one lucky bride
Oh, the wedding we won't make He'll end up marrying a fake Shining Armor will be...
Mares and gentlecolts, we are gathered here today to witness the union of [muffled] Princess Mi Amore Cadenza and Shining Armor.
Oh, we're never going to save him.
We will. We just have to find... There!
Minuette, Lyra Heartstrings, You're not going anywhere.
Princess Cadance and Shining Armor, it is my great pleasure to pronounce you–
Stop!
Ugh! Why does she have to be so possessive of her brother? [sobbing] Why does she have to ruin my special day?
Because it's not your special day! It's mine!
What? But how did you escape my bridesmaids?
Minuette, Lyra Heartstrings, I want it!
Hmph. Clever. But you're still too late.
I-I don't understand. How can there be two of 'em?
She's a changeling. She takes the form of somepony you love and gains power by feeding off your love for them.
[laughing] Right you are, Princess. And as queen of the changelings, it is up to me to find food for my subjects. Equestria has more love than any place I've ever encountered. My fellow changelings will be able to devour so much of it that we will gain more power than we have ever dreamed of!
They'll never get the chance! Shining Armor's protection spell will keep them from ever even reaching us!
[chuckling] Oh, I doubt that. Isn't that right, dear?
Mm-hmm.
Ah, ah, ah. Don't want to go back to the caves, now do you? Ever since I took your place, I've been feeding off Shining Armor's love for you. Every moment he grows weaker and so does his spell. Even now, my minions are chipping away at it.
[laughing] He may not be my husband, but he is under my total control now.
And I'm sorry to say, unable to perform his duties as captain of the Royal Guard.
Not my Shining Armor!
Soon, my changeling army will break through. First, we take Canterlot. And then, all of Equestria!
No. You won't. You may have made it impossible for Shining Armor to perform his spell, but now that you have so foolishly revealed your true self, I can protect my subjects from you!
Princess Celestia!
Ah! Shining Armor's love for you is even stronger than I thought! Consuming it has made me even more powerful than Celestia!
The Elements of Harmony. You must get to them and use their power to defeat the queen.
Twilight Sparkle, Applejack, Pinkie Pie, Rarity!
[laughing] You can run, but you can't hide!
Go, go!
Looks like we're gonna have to do this the hard way. How did you...?
They're changelings, remember?
Changelings [as Twilight Sparkle]: They're changelings, remember?
Don't let them distract you. We have to get to the Elements of Harmony. They're our only hope.
OK, this is just gettin' weird. Real me! Real me!
[laughing] Do me! Do me! Meh, I've seen better.
You won't get away with this! Twilight and her friends will–
You were saying? You do realize the reception's been cancelled, don't you? Go! Feed!
Sorry, Twi. We should've listened to you.
It's not your fault. She fooled everypony.
Hmm, I did, didn't I?
Quick! Go to him while you still have the chance!
Wha– where... huh? Is...is the wedding over?
It's all over!
Your spell! Perform your spell!
[laughing] What good would that do? My changelings already roam free.
No! My power is useless now. I don't have the strength to repel them.
My love will give you strength.
[chuckling] What a lovely but absolutely ridiculous sentiment.
Noooooo!
Don't worry about me. I'm fine. You have a real wedding to put together.
Seriously, though. I get why the queen of the changelings wanted to be with you, but how did you get someone as amazing as Cadance to marry you?
I told her she wouldn't just be gaining a husband. She'd be getting a pretty great sister, too.
Mares and gentlecolts, we are gathered here today to celebrate the union of the real Princess Mi Amore Cadenza–
Princess Cadance is fine.
Hm. The union of Princess Cadance and Shining Armor. The strength of their commitment is clear. The power of their love, undeniable. May we have the rings please? I now pronounce you mare and colt!
This is your victory as much as theirs. You persisted in the face of doubt, and your actions led to your being able to bring the real Princess Cadance back to us. Learning to trust your instincts is a valuable lesson to learn.
Rainbow Dash, that's your cue.
Best... wedding... ever!
Hello, everypony. Did I miss anything?
[squee] Let's get this party started!
Love is in bloom A beautiful bride, a handsome groom, Two hearts becoming one A bond that cannot be undone because
Love is in bloom A beautiful bride, a handsome groom I said love is in bloom You're starting a life and making room For us (For us, For us....)
Twilight! None of this would've been possible without you, little sis. Love ya, Twily.
Love you too, B.B.B.F.F.
Ready to go?
Oh! Almost forgot.
IT'S MINE! Oof! Ahaha... ha.
[background] Love is in bloom A beautiful bride, a handsome groom I said love is in bloom You're starting a life and making room For us, (For us... For us... Aah...)
Now this was a great wedding.
Royal guard # News from Northern Equestria! Uh... Your Highness.
Yes?
Royal guard # I am simply to tell you that it has returned.
[gasp] Find Princess Cadance and Shining Armor.
Royal guard # Yes, Your Highness.
My dearest Twilight, you must come to Canterlot at once.
[panicked breathing] Where are all my quills? Brbrbr. No, no, no, no, no... Ugh! I need the Magical Compendium volumes 1 through 36! Where is it?!
Flash cards! I should make some flash cards. Spike, I'm gonna need you to quiz me. On everything. Everything I've ever learned. Ever. That isn't going to be enough cards.
Twilight, calm down. It's just a test.
Just a test? Just a test!? Princess Celestia wants to give me some kind of exam, and you're trying to tell me to calm down because it's just a test?!
Uh... yes.
I'd say she's handling things pretty well, considerin'.
Urgh!
Are you sure you don't want me to go as well?
Yes. Princess Cadance and Shining Armor are already there. The others will be joining them soon.
The Empire's magic is powerful. It cannot fall again, my sister.
She will succeed at her task. And when she does, we'll know that she is that much closer to being ready.
Ahem.
Trust me, little sister.
You wanted to see me? To give me a test? I brought my own quills and plenty of paper to show my work. Sorry, sorry!
This is a different kind of test. The Crystal Empire has returned.
The Crystal Empire? I'm sorry, I-I thought I'd studied. Ooh. I don't think there's anything in any of my books th–
There wouldn't be. Few remember it ever existed at all. Even my knowledge of the Empire is limited. But what I do know is that it contains a powerful magic. One thousand years ago, King Sombra, a unicorn whose heart was black as night, took over the Crystal Empire.
He was ultimately overthrown, turned to shadow, and banished to the ice of the arctic north.
But not before he was able to put a curse upon the Empire. A curse that caused it to vanish into thin air. If the Empire is filled with hope and love, those things are reflected across all of Equestria. If hatred and fear take hold... Which is why I need your help finding a way to protect it.
You want me to help protect an entire empire?
It is, as I said, a different kind of test. But one I'm certain you will pass.
How do I begin?
By joining Princess Cadance and Shining Armor in the Crystal Empire.
My brother is there?
He is. And your Ponyville friends will join you there as well. I have every confidence you will succeed. And when you do, I'll know you are ready to move on to the next level of your studies.
But what if I fail?
You won't.
But what if–
You won't. But Twilight, in the end, it must be you and you alone who ultimately assists Princess Cadance and Shining Armor in doing what needs to be done to protect the Empire. Do you understand?
Mm-hmm!
Then go. There is no time to lose.
Ah! Twilight! That was fast! Let me guess, you got a perfect score? A-minus? B-plus? [gasp] Twilight, did you... [quietly] fail?
I was prepared to do my best Thought I could handle any test For I can do so many tricks But I wasn't prepared for this
Levitation would have been a breeze Facts and figures I recite with ease
The square root of five hundred and forty-six is twenty-three point three six six six four two eight nine one zero nine.
She is correct!
I could ace a quiz on friendship's bliss But I wasn't prepared for this Will I fail, or will I pass? I can't be sure...
She can't be sure...
My mind is sharp, my skills intact My heart is pure...
Her heart is pure...
Oh, I've taken my share of licks I've made it through the thin and thick But no I wasn't
Oh no, she wasn't
Oh no, I wasn't
Oh no, she wasn't
No I wasn't
Prepared... for this!
Uh, prepared for what exactly?
Twilight! Uh, did you pass?
Are we gonna celebrate your awesomeness with Princess Celestia?
Not quite. We're going to the Crystal Empire!
Huh?
Crystal what?
Ha! And you all made fun of me for packing so many scarves.
Twilight!
Shining Armor?
Twily! You made it! We'd better get moving. There are things out here we really don't want to run into after dark.
[gulp] What kind of things?
Let's just say the Empire... isn't the only thing that's returned.
Something keeps trying to get in! We think it's the unicorn king who originally cursed the place.
But Princess Celestia said I was being sent here to find a way to protect the Empire! If King Sombra can't get in, then it must already be protected.
[gasp] Th-That's one of the things, isn't it?
Guh. We have to get to the Crystal Empire! Now!
Go, go!
Almost there.
[gasps for breath] Everypony okay?
Oh, no! Shining Armor, your horn!
Sparkleriffic!
It's gorgeous! Absolutely gorgeous! [mumbles incoherently] There are no words!
Focus, Rarity. We're here to help Twilight, not admire the scenery.
Eh, I don't see what the big deal is. Just looks like another old castle to me.
A– p– guh! Another old...! Have you lost your mind? Look at the magni–
Very funny.
Cadance!
Ooh.
Are you okay?
Cadance has been able to use her magic to spread love and light. That seems to be what is protecting it. But she hasn't slept, barely eats. I want to help her, but my protection spell has been countered by King Sombra.
[breathes deeply] It's alright Shining Armor, I'm fine.
She's not fine. She can't go on like this forever, and if her magic were to fade... Well, you saw what's out there waiting for that to happen.
That's why we're here.
Why we're all here.
Mm-hmm.
Well, with Cadance putting all her strength into keeping her spell going, and me trying to keep an eye on signs of trouble in the arctic, we haven't been able to gather much information from the Crystal Ponies.
Crystal Ponies?! Hahaha, there are Crystal Ponies?! Um, ahem. Please continue.
But we have to believe one of them knows how we can protect the Empire without having to use Cadance's magic.
A research paper!
Huh?
That must be part of my test – to gather information from the Crystal Ponies and deliver it to you! This is gonna be great! I love research papers!
[sarcastically] Yeah, who doesn't?
Oh-oh-oh! Lemme guess! Is it Spike? Nono, Fluttershy! Rarity?
Don't worry, big brother. I am really good at this sort of thing.
Are you sure? Absolutely sure?
King Sombra's spell must be why their coats aren't... crystally.
Have we really been gone a thousand years?
Yes.
It feels like it was just yesterday.
If you think of anything, even the smallest thing...
Of course.
Well, that was a total bust.
Maybe the others are having better luck.
A way to protect the Empire! You know anything about it or what?
I wish I could help you. Really.
Hold on! You gotta know something!
But... I don't have any information.
Time to gather some intel!
It just feels like something is missing.
"Night Knight": I know. It looks the same, but it doesn't feel the same.
Because it isn't!
[gasps] A spy!
[screams] A spy? How did they know? Ah! Must have noticed my night vision goggles. Ooh! Night vision-y!
[sighs] I got nothing so far.
Oh, me neither.
[hushed] My cover has been blown. I repeat, my cover has been blown!
Ooookay.
Sorry, Twilight. These crystal ponies seem to have some kinda collective amnesia or somethin'. Only thing I was able to get out of 'em was somethin' about a library.
[gasps] A library? Well, why didn't you say so?!
Uh... thought I just did.
I just... I don't even know what to... There are no words.
Ahem. May I help you?
Yes. We're looking for a book.
We have plenty of those.
[in awe] You do. You really do.
We're lookin' for a history book. Somethin' that might tell us how the Empire might've protected itself from danger back in the day.
Yes. Of course. History, history... Ah, yes.
Which is where, exactly?
I... I can't seem to remember. I'm not sure I actually work here.
Ugh.
We'll just take a look around. I'm sure we can find it on our own.
Let me know if you find anything.
I like her!
Uh, anyone else startin' to think this is a lost cause?
No, no, no, no, no... Yes! "History of the Crystal Empire". I just hope it has the answers we need.
A 'Crystal Faire'. According to this book, it was established by their first queen and became their most important tradition. The Faire was held every year to "renew the spirit of love and unity in the empire so they could protect it from harm". My friends and I could put it together. Everything we need to know is in the book!
That sounds pretty promising.
We'll get started right away. C'mon, Spike, we've got a Crystal Faire to put together!
Princess Cadance needs our help Her magic will not last forever I think we can do it But we need to work together
We have to get this right Yes, we have to make them see We can save the Crystal Ponies with their history
It says that they liked jousting
They flew a flag of many hues
Made sweets of crystal berries
They had a petting zoo with tiny ewes
Oh, we have to get this right Yes, we have to make them see We can save the Crystal Ponies with their history
There was a crystal flugelhorn That every pony liked to play
And the Crystal Kingdom anthem Can you learn it in a day?
Oh, we have to get this right Yes, we have to make them see We can save the Crystal Ponies with their history
It looks amazing! I don't know how I could've done this without you! One last check to make sure everything is in place, and then the festivities can begin!
What's this thing for?
The last page of the book mentioned a Crystal Heart as the faire's centerpiece, so I used my magic to cut one out of a crystal block.
Nice work, Twi. Think we're ready to get this faire up and runnin'.
Hear ye, hear–
[blows flugelhorn] Flugelhorn! [laughs nervously] My bad.
Ahem. Hear ye, hear ye! Princess Cadance and Prince Shining Armor do cordially invite you to attend the Crystal Faire!
Come on in, y'all. Got food and drinks thataway, games and crafts are thataway, Crystal Heart to the back near the Princess.
Did she say... Crystal Heart?
We totally nailed it, right? Must be feeling a lot of love and unity about now! Gonna have some grub, huh? What are you thinking? Crystal Empire berry pie? Maybe some crystal corn-on-the-cob! [pause] What is with these ponies?!
Seeing all of this, I feel like I'm starting to remember. Remember things from before the king.
Me too.
Autumn Gem  [gasps] The Crystal Heart!
Do you think they really have it?
Of course we have it! Can't have a Crystal Faire without the Crystal Heart, right?
Of course you can't. The whole purpose of the Crystal Faire is to lift the spirits of the Crystal Ponies, so the light within them can power the Crystal Heart, so that the Empire can be protected! [gasps] I do work at the library!
W-what's that about 'powering the heart'?
I just can't believe you found it. King Sombra said he'd hidden it away where we would never see it again! I only hope it will still be as powerful after all these years...! Mm, funnel cake!
Why did you–
I think we may have a problem...
I didn't know it was an actual relic! The book didn't mention anything about the Crystal Ponies powering the Heart! There was a page missing... How did I not notice?!
It's alright, Twilight.
Twily...
You wanted to see me? To give me a test?
The Crystal Empire has returned.
You want me to help protect an entire empire?
It must be you and you alone.
But what if I fail?
Let's just say the Empire... isn't the only thing that's returned.
Go, go!
Sparkleriffic!
Well, with Cadance putting all her strength into keeping her spell going, and me trying to keep an eye on signs of trouble in the arctic, we haven't been able to gather much information from the Crystal Ponies.
There are Crystal Ponies?!
"History of the Crystal Empire". The last page of the book mentioned a Crystal Heart as the Faire's centerpiece, so I used my magic to cut one out of a crystal block.
The whole purpose of the Crystal Faire is to lift the spirits of the Crystal Ponies, so the light within them can power the Crystal Heart, so that the empire can be protected!
I think we may have a problem...
I didn't know it was an actual relic!
It's alright, Twilight.
Twily...
The Empire is under attack.
Arrgh!
I have to find the Crystal Heart!
No, you stay here with Cadance. She needs you, Shining Armor. I'll retrieve the Heart.
Let's do this!
I've been trying to figure out how I'm meant to pass Celestia's test. Retrieving the Crystal Heart must be it. But there is something else you can do.
Name it.
You and the rest of our friends have to keep the Faire going.
What? With that thing moving into the Empire?
The whole purpose of the Crystal Faire is to lift the spirits of the Crystal Ponies, so they can activate the Crystal Heart.
Yeah, and?
If the Crystal Ponies find out that King Sombra is trying to take over the Empire again, their spirits are gonna be anything but lifted. It won't matter if I find the Crystal Heart. They won't be able to make it work. You have to keep them happy here at the Faire.
Keep the Faire going and the Crystal Ponies' spirits high. Done and done!
Twily, be careful.
I will.
[under his breath] Uh-huh. We can do that. Twilight's doing what?!
He... really... loves getting his face painted. Haha.
Who wants a flugelhorn?
I want a flugelhorn!
 Who else wants a flugelhorn?
[screaming] I want a flugelhorn!!
[pants] Twilight, wait! I'm coming with you!
You can't. I have to retrieve the Crystal Heart by myself.
I know. I promise I won't lift a claw to help you.
[sighs] Not a claw, Spike.
Where are we going exactly?
I think I might know where King Sombra hid the Crystal Heart.
The castle?
The king would've been counting on the fact that nopony would dare come looking for it here. They'd have been too afraid to even try.
I hope you're right.
You and me both.
What are you lookin' at?! That's what I thought!
[whispering] Uh, Rainbow Dash? We're supposed to be actin' like nothing's wrong.
[hushed] What I mean is, maybe you should let me keep the Crystal Ponies away from the fake Heart, while you show off your joustin' skills.
Huh. Seeing my awesomeness does have a way of putting ponies into a pretty good mood.
Come on, Knight Fluttershy.
Huh?
It's showtime.
How are y'all feelin'? Havin' a good time?
The best I've had in over a thousand years!
Well, that's good! Gotta renew that spirit of love and unity if you're gonna power up that Crystal Heart, right?
I sure would like to see it before the ceremony. It's been such a long time.
Oh, I hear ya, but, uh... phew! Gettin' a little toasty out here. Bet you'd like to cool off with a little Crystal Empire nectar! [panicked noise] Uh, you tried the Crystal Empire fritters yet? Made from a traditional Crystal Empire recipe! You're gonna love 'em! [loudly] Uh, I hear there's a joustin' match about to start! You don't wanna miss that! [hushed] Come on, Twilight... These Crystal Ponies are more curious than a cat!
It's gotta be here somewhere. It's just gotta be! Not a claw, Spike.
Celestia's orders!
Of course!
[panting for breath] Argh! What? Did you find it?
No. Because this isn't King Sombra's castle.
Well, isn't this where he lived when he was in power?
Whoa. When did you learn to do that?
That was a little trick Celestia taught me.
You stay here.
Huh, if you insist. [echoing] Can you see what's down there yet?
[echoing] Not yet. I can't even tell how far down this goes!
Spike?
[echoing] Yeah?
[echoing] Can you see outside?
[growls] Yesss... Crystalsss...
It's not good! Cadance's magic must be fading [echoing] faster than before!
[echoing] Twilight? Are you okay?
Yes...
Spike, I think it's here! Huh?
What are you doing here?
I don't know! I opened the door and–
And now you must go.
Go where?
Doesn't matter to me. You failed the test, Twilight!
I don't understand! The test?
Not only will you not move on to the next level of your studies, you won't continue your studies at all!
I... You didn't say anything about no longer being your student if I failed!
Didn't I?
But... what do I do now?
[incredibly distant and muffled] Twilight! [closer] Twilight? Twilight! Twiliiiight! [quickly] I know you told me to stay up there, but you were down here for such a long time and you weren't answering and I got worried so I came down here and you were just staring at that wall and... I was calling your name, but I couldn't seem to get your attention, and– What were you looking at? I mean... it's just a wall. ...Ponyville?! Well, how did I get... No! I don't wanna go! Please, Twilight, don't make me!
King Sombra's dark magic. A doorway that leads to your worst fear.
We were home. You told me you didn't need me anymore. You were sending me away...
A fear that will never come to pass. I'm never gonna send you away. And I'm not gonna fail my test!
What's in there?
[sighs] Stairs. Lots and lots of stairs. [sighs] Maybe you should come with me this time.
[off-screen] Bravo, Knight Rainbow Dash!
[nervous exhale] [catching breath] Isn't there... somepony else who could... take over the jousting demonstration with you?
[scoffs] The fate of an entire empire rests on us showing these ponies a good time. But, y'know, if that isn't important to you...
[sigh] Okay, okay, I'll take it easy on you next time. But not too easy. I've got a reputation to maintain!
[panting] What if this is just more of his magic? He makes a door that leads to your worst nightmare. Why not a staircase that goes on forever?
Hold on to me.
Uh...
[sounds of exertion] Whoa. Whoaaa! Yaaaah!
[laughs nervously] Excuse me, pardon me... [hushed] I am running out of weaving materials for the traditional crafts booth! I just made a hat out of three pieces of hay and a drinking straw! I made it work. But still!
We gotta do everything we can to keep this thing goin'. The Princess isn't lookin' so good. I can't imagine her magic is gonna last much longer. It's gonna be fine. These ponies are gonna power up that Crystal Heart when the time comes, and we won't be needin' her magic anyway.
This isn't the Crystal Heart.
[laughs nervously] Oh, of course it isn't. The real one is–
On its way!
[hushed] I was going to say 'being polished' to buy us some more time?
Oops.
It's... It's him!
Crystal Heart...
The Heart... Where's the Crystal–
Here! It rolled over to me when you dropped it!
Don't move!
You can move, just not toward me! How could I have been so foolish? I was just so eager to get it! Then when I saw what was going on outside, I...
You have to get out of there, Twilight! You have to be the one who brings the Heart to Princess Cadance! If you don't, you'll fail Celestia's test!
King Sombra is already attacking the Empire. He could reach the Crystal Ponies at any moment... reach Princess Cadance, my brother, my friends. There may not be enough time for me to find a way to escape.
You have to be the one to bring the Crystal Heart to the Faire.
Me? But Twilight–
Go!
But–
Goooo!
Now, don't y'all worry your pretty, little Crystal heads! The real Crystal Heart will be here any second!
[hushed] I don't know if they believe you...
[hushed] Don't know if I believe me...
He's back! I can't take it! [shrieks] Ugh!
Ahhhhhh...
[shrieks] King Sombra...!
My crystal slaves...
Whoa! Huh! [spits fire] Yah! [nervous noise] Hey! Up here!
Spike?
I got the Crystal Heart!
[growls] That is mine!
[gasps] Spikey-wikey!
Hah. Huh?
Behold! The Crystal Princess!
The Crystal Heart has returned. Use the light and love within you to ensure that King Sombra does not.
What? No... No! Stop!
[sighs] Good job, Spike.
I do so wish it was permanent. Did you see how my mane just absolutely sparkled?
But... good things are better when they're a rarity.
Everything's gonna be okay. You've gotta stop saving my rump like this. It's starting to get embarrassing.
Wasn't me who saved you in the end. It was Spike.
It's just a test. Maybe she'll let you retake it.
I don't think she's gonna give me a new test.
[breathing heavily] [to himself] Keep it together, buddy... Gotta stay strong... for Twilight...
It's beautiful.
I wish it had been me who ultimately made it so. But it wasn't.
Twilight, as I understand it, Spike brought Princess Cadance the Crystal Heart because you weren't sure how quickly you could find a way to escape the tower. You weren't willing to risk the future of the citizens of the Crystal Empire in an effort to guarantee your own. Far better that I have a student who understands the meaning of self-sacrifice than one who only looks out for her own best interests.
Does this mean...?
She's totally gonna lose it! [breathes heavily] Keep it together, buddy... Gotta stay strong... for Twilight...!
I passed!
Ooh.
You were prepared to do your best Had what it takes to pass the test All those doubts you can dismiss Turns out you were
Prepared for this!
You clearly have just what it takes
To pass a test with such high stakes
We knew for sure you would prevail
Since when does Twilight Sparkle ever fail?
All those doubts that you can dismiss Trust yourself and you cannot miss
[Applejack, Rarity, and Pinkie Pie] Turns out you were
Turns out I was
[Rainbow Dash, Fluttershy, and Spike] Turns out you were
Turns out I was
Turns out you were
Prepared for this!
Try again, Twi, you can do it!
Phew, this spell's a toughie. But I feel lucky this time! One, two...
Hi!
Nnnnnng! Pinkie, why'd you do that?!
'Cause hugs are funneriffic, especially when you throw one around a friend. Whatcha doin'?
Trying to turn that apple into an orange!
But you kinda threw her aim off...
Wheee! [giggles] What a cute orange birdie! Do me next, Twilight! Do me, do me!
Ooooh, Rarity, wanna see Twilight turn me into an orange? It's gonna be funna-fun-fuuun!
As fun as creating this haute couture ensemble that I just finished making? Delightful, non?
[gasps] This is terrible!
I admit it's perhaps not my finest work, but I–
You had total-awesome-amazing fun and I missed out on it?! Neh! Wait! What if there's more awesome amazing fun with friends happening somewhere in Ponyville right now that I'm missing out on too?!
We weren't going to turn her into an orange! I swear!
Hey, Rainbow Dash, whatcha doing?
This punk cloud got so heavy it's making fog. Figure I'll thin this bad boy out so it floats back up.
Oooh, fun! Wheeeeee! Gotta go!
Uh, thanks, Pinkie...?
Hey, Applejack! That looks like fun, can I join you? Wheee! Next time I'll pull you!
Fluttershy! [panting] There... you... are...! Doing... [deep breath] anything... [deep breath] fun?
Not especially.
Feeling better, Pinkie?
Abso-tutely-lutely! Thanks for letting me rest in your butterfly grove while I get my Pinkie strength back!
What are friends for?
That's just the thing! I've got so many wonderful friends having fun in every last corner of Ponyville, I can't figure out how to keep up with it all! It's driving me even more coco-loco than usual!
I can promise to not do anything fun at all if that would help.
You are such a good friend.
There you are, Pinkie. Been lookin' everywhere for ya, girl.
Hey, Pinkie. Got something fun planned this afternoon thought you might wanna know about.
Heh. Well, I'll be an apple crisp. I'm here for the same reason.
This is perfect! Everyone will now bring their fun to me. Ha, this'll solve everything! Why didn't I think of that?
Actually, what I meant is after I'm done whipping up today's weather, I'll be chilling by the lake catching some rays. Wanna hang?
I am so there. Wheee.
And my family's havin' a barn-raisin' this afternoon at Sweet Apple Acres.
And I'm also so there. Whee, whee.
But... that's when I'll be at the swimming hole. Ah, well, doesn't matter. Whichever one you choose is okay with me.
Me too.
[gasps] Choose?
One, two...
Pinkie! What in the wide, wide world of Equestria are you doing now?
Timing myself galloping back and forth between the swimming hole and Sweet Apple Acres. I'm trying to cut down my time so if Rainbow Dash dives off the swing, I can get to Sweet Apple Acres to help with the barn raising, and then be back in time to see Rainbow Dash hit the water after doing a double flip! [sigh] If I can cut my time by only twenty minutes, I'm good.
[laughs] Oh, Pinkie. I'm afraid no matter how hard you try, the only way to pull something like that off is if there's more of you to go around.
That's it, Twilight! The legend of the Mirror Pool!
Legend of the who-what now? Pinkie! I'm familiar with loads of legends, and I never heard of–
Does this mean practice is over?
Of course not! Back to work.
Seems like hardly anypony's been here in ages. I hope I'm remembering the rhymes right from my Nana Pinkie's story. "Where the brambles are thickest, there you will find a pond beyond the most twisted of vines!" [echoes] What was that?! Oh, I heard a voice! Oh. Hehe. It was me. Ouch! Ooh! Stop scratching me up, you brambles, and– Whoooaaa!
[gasp] The Mirror Pool! [echoes] Oh, and there's that voice again! Tsk, tsk, tsk. Ah Pinkie, you have got to stop talking to yourself. Starting... now. "And into her own reflection she stared, uh, yearning for one whose reflection she shared, and solemnly sweared not to be scared at the prospect of being doubly mared!"
Wheee-heee!
Wow, the legend is true. It really worked!
Okay, wait. I promised not talk to myself anymore. I should say something to her. Or... would that still be talking to myself? Excuse me, me? Can I have a word with you? Uh, I mean, me? Listen, I can see you're having lots of fun, but–
Fun?! Did somebody say fun? Where?
I did, over here!
I thought someone said something about fun! Where is it? Over here? Over here? I don't see it! Where is it? Where is it?
Whoa, calm yourself, Pinkie, there's loads of fun to be had in Ponyville with my girls! Trot on over back to Ponyville with me and I'll tell you all about 'em.
...And then there's Rarity. She's the one with all the fancy clothes and ribbons and stuff! I'm thinking she can make us all matching t-shirts that say 'Team Pinkie', and–
Is this Ponyville? Where's the fun? Where's the fun?
Uh, well, let's see, Applejack's having a barn raising at–
It's that-away!
Wait, come back! Don't forget to meet me back here to tell me everything about everything, like I was there myself! Because I'm you and, and you're me, and– Oh, my gosh! This is the greatest plan ever! [squee] Now, off to double my fun!
Let's rock this pool, ponies! [blows up inflatable] Whee!
Coming in, Dashie? The water's great, it's totally wet and everything!
I don't know... Cloud busting was tougher work than usual today. [yawns] I'm kind of exhausted.
That's fine, you relax. At least we'll still be together!
Glad you made it, Pinkie. I thought you maybe went to Applejack's, instead.
I did.
Oh. The barn up yet?
I have no idea.
But I thought you said you were just at Applejack's.
Actually, I'm probably still on my way there now! Whee!
Oh, Pinkie Pie, I'm so glad you wandered by. I know I promised not to have any fun today, but, oh, I couldn't help myself. All of my critter friends wanted a picnic, and I couldn't disappoint them. Come join us. We have plenty of hay juice and marmalade to go around, don't we, critters?
[chomps] Wait, but that sounds super fun! Oh, but Applejohn sounds super fun too! Uh, and, and I can't do one without missing out on the other!
Who's Applejohn?
Two fun things at once? But which, which? Oh, can't decide... [breathes heavily] Trouble breathing... Walls closing in!
Walls? But we're outside.
Goodness. Was it something I said?
Yes!
Huh?
So you see, that's how I'm able to have fun in two places at once.
Duplicates of you, huh? Heh, yeah, sure, Pinkie. [yawns] Look, I was just gearing up to catch some Z's, so, uh...
Gotcha. I'll have the rest of my fun really quietly. [quietly] Wheeeee...
How'd you do that?
Just trying to show a little consideration for my sleepy friend. Ooh, ooh, gotta run. Looks like I'm trying to get my attention. Excuse me.
And me.
Ooh, ooh, tell me all about it! Did they pull the walls of the barn up slow or fast?
I–
Maybe slow to medium fast, somewhere in that range?
I–
Ooh, did you get ice cream? What kinds did they have? Banana brickle?
I didn't make it! I was on my way there and then Fluttershutter–
Fluttershy.
Yeah, her. She offered something else fun for me to do! A picnic, with cute little animals!
Aw, how could you say no to that?
That's what I'm saying! Then I would've missed the super fun thing with Applesauce!
Applejack.
[bawling] So I didn't do anything fun at all!
Aw, my poor poor me! There, there. Tell me what, we just need a couple more Pinkie Pies. Easy peasy.
Really?
Come on, would I lie to me?
"...and solemnly sweared not to be scared at the prospect of being doubly mared!"
Look, a double me!
I think you mean a double-double me. Plus another double-double me, which makes two double-double mes, or a double-double-double me, if you will.
Did somebody say fun? Where? Fun fun fun fun fun!
Now Applejack, Rainbow Dash, and Fluttershy are covered, plus one extra Pinkie Pie in case we get an extra invite from somepony else. Perfect! Okay, let's go! [under] Hey, Pinkies! Yoo-hoo!
Pinkie Pies 2, "...and solemnly sweared not to be scared at the prospect of being doubly mared!"
Okay, good enough. Pinkie Pies, move it out–
"...not to be scared, at the prospect of being doubly mared!"
What in the name of pink?! Knock it off!
To Ponyville, everyone! Follow me!
[sighs] Yes, it's fun there.
[whistles] Okay, between the bunch of us, we should have every nook and cranny of fun in Ponyville covered at all times. An unprecedented and massive undertaking! But first, a pop quiz on the names I taught you!
[in chorus] Applejack! Fluttershy! Pinkie Pie!
Excellent. Okay, let's get on with this, folks. Fan out on three. One–
Eh, good enough. La-la-la-la-la-la-la, la-la-la, whee!
[sneezes] What the–
Wow! Pinkie Pie wasn't kidding about the duplicates! Except now there's triplicates... and quadruplicates!
Dash is gonna love this! Aw, if I push her around on this floaty thing, it'll be fun and relaxing!
Uh-oh...
No more Pinkies! I can't take it!
Gosh, uh... I wonder what fun they're having raising the barn at Applejack's right now! Maybe I'd better go check!
No!
Oh, phew! Looks like I haven't missed a thing!
I wanna know right now where all you Pinkies came from, so I can find out who's responsible for y'all ruinin' our barn raisin'!
Uh, you look pretty busy right now, so [laughs nervously] maybe we should talk a little later?
Fun! Fun! Fun! Fun!
Y'all come back here and clean up after yourselves this instant!
Oh no, what have I done, what have I done?! My poor friends...
Okay, everypony, please, calm down!
Calm down? I just had a Pinkie hurricane raging through my shop!
And they trashed our critter picnic!
Please, everypony, hang on while I try to figure something out! Come on, Spike. I've gotta try to remember the name of that legend she mentioned.
Aha, here it is! "The legend of the Mirror Pond"... It describes a spell I can use to send them back where they came from!
That's perfect! Let's go!
But there's a catch. If I can't figure out which one's the real Pinkie, I might send her back by mistake!
Well, we'll just have to figure out who the real one is then. Shouldn't be too hard.
Does anypony here know how we can tell the real Pinkie Pie from all the rest of them?
Twilight! I have to talk to you, I need your help!
Excuse me, whoever you are, but I'm not talking to any of you Pinkies unless you're the real Pinkie.
Oh, but, but I am the real Pinkie!
No, you're not! I'm the real Pinkie!
I'm the real Pinkie!
No, I'm the real Pinkie!
I'm the real Pinkie!
No, I'm the real Pinkie!
I'm the real Pinkie!
Fun! Fun! Fun! Fun!
How in tarnation are we supposed to tell which is the real Pinkie?
I have no idea.
Fun! Fun! Fun! Fun!
Ugh, this is hopeless!
Maybe that one's the real Pinkie.
Please. The real Pinkie Pie never sat that long in one place her whole life!
I'm gonna go ask.
Of course she's gonna say she's the real Pinkie! They all do! You're wasting your time.
So lemme guess. You're the real Pinkie Pie.
Heck if I know. Could be any one of us if you ask me. And if I said I was the real Pinkie, you wouldn't even believe me anyway. So just leave me alone. I've got some important poking the ground with my hoof to do.
Oh, Spike, how're we gonna do this? I can't risk sending the real Pinkie back into the pond!
I miss the real Pinkie.
[sighs] I bet she misses you too. Bet she'd do just about anything to get to be with her friends again. Hey. Hey! What if you gave them a test? Pick something really hard for a Pinkie to do, something not fun at all! Any Pinkie that can't do it goes back into the pond. But whoever wants to stay the most, that must be the real Pinkie!
You know, that's not a bad idea.
Hey, Twilight!
I've been looking all over for you ponies. What are you all doing here?
Fluttershy spoke with the woodland critters, and they've agreed to take us into their home 'til the Pinkie storm dies down.
You guys, we're gonna fix this. And I know exactly how.
Are we gonna lose our real Pinkie Pie?
I don't think so. Now come along. I've already got Applejack and her family rounding up all the Pinkies.
Hyah, ya Pinkies! Hyah!
Ooh, they wanna play chase! This is fun, too!
Oh, give it a rest.
Welcome, Pinkies, welcome. Please have a seat and make yourselves comfortable. [pause] Okay, I suppose you can't be comfortable staying in one place, but have a seat anyway. [pause] Sit down!
Better. Now, I suppose you're all wondering why I've gathered you all here today.
For fun?
No, just the opposite actually.
Wait up, I got one more! Found this one poking at the ground with her hoof, drawing frowny faces.
Have her come sit with the others.
Pinkies, you've been brought here to take a test.
[in chorus] Awww!
Don't worry, it's a simple test, about as simple as they come, and whoever passes gets to stay.
Curtain, please. The test... will be watching paint dry!
On your mark, get set, go!
Ooh, this is so exciting!
Okay, maybe not that exciting.
Oh, hey, look at the birdie!
Watch me bounce and touch the ceiling!
Is that... is that a frog crossed with an orange?
Cool!
Where?
Betcha can't make a face crazier than... this!
Ugh, I can't take it anymore! Somepony's making balloon animals!
What? Where?
Pinkie, you can look away now.
I passed?
You passed. You're the only Pinkie who kept staring at the wall.
I had to. I just had to. I couldn't leave my friends, I just couldn't. But I guess sometimes I will have to choose between them.
I knew you'd be up to the challenge.
I'm me! I'm me! I'm me! Or am I? Yeah, I'm pretty sure I am.
Dear Princess Celestia,
It's great to have fun, but it's even greater to have great friends. And having lots of friends means that you sometimes have to make choices as to who you'll spend your time with. But that's okay, because good friends will always give you lots of opportunities to have fun. So even if you're missing out, it's never for long.
Respectfully yours,
Pinkie Pie.
Hi, Pinkie Pie. We were thinking we should go out and celebrate.
You up for some wheelbarrow races?
Or I could take everypony on a cloud ride!
I could throw a party with punch and zesty cucumber sandwiches! Ooh!
That looks like fun.
Oh, Pinkie.
[whining] What to wear, what to wear? Oh, what to wear?!
Scoot your boot, Apple Bloom. It's not like it's the Harvest Day Parade! We're just goin' to the train station!
Too casual. Too summery.
[sigh] Your cousin isn't gonna care what you're wearin'. Just pick somethin'!
This is my first time meetin' her, and she's from Manehattan. I wanna make a good impression!
You know what would make a good impression?
What?
Bein' on time to pick her up!
You got nothin' to worry about, sugarcube. Y'all are gonna get along great. You already have somethin' in common.
[muffled, through snorkel] Oh, yeah? What's that?
Neither of you have your cutie mark.
What?! How could you forget to tell me somethin' like that?
Well, I–
Oh, this changes everything! Meet you at the train station! I'm gonna go tell Sweetie Belle and Scootaloo!
You know, your cousin is supposed to sleep in here!
Do you really think she'll wanna join?
She doesn't have her cutie mark. Of course she'll wanna join the Cutie Mark Crusaders!
I'm just so excited I could burst!
Is that the train from Manehattan?
Yep.
That's her! Oh, wait, no, no, that's not her. Oh! No, tha-tha-that's her! Um, no. Oh, wait, tha– that's not her either, uh...
Apple Bloom, you've never met Babs Seed, remember?
Oh... [laughs nervously] Yeah.
Ah, that's her!
Babs! Babs! It's me, your cousin, Apple Bloom! And this is Sweetie Belle, and this is Scootaloo, and we are so, so, so glad you're here!
Thanks, I'm happy to–
This is gonna be the best week of your life!
Sure hope it's gonna be–
Seriously, we are gonna have a blast.
The Summer Harvest Parade's going on while you're here! You'll get to ride in a float!
Really? I've never been on a float before.
And we've got a really big surprise for you!
Yeah... uh... a surprise?
I give you... the Cutie Mark Crusaders Clubhouse!
The Cutie Mark Crusaders?
A club devoted to helping ponies get their cutie marks! We're its founding members.
Technically, we're its only members.
But we're always looking to expand, and you seem like the perfect candidate!
I do?
Well, yeah, since you don't have a cutie mark and all.
Oh, yeah... [blows] That...
Allow me to show you just some of the highlights of our clubhouse, should you choose to join us.
This is where we do our role call...
This is where we eat our lunch...
Sometimes we stand here and think of great ideas.
Yeah, uh...
Uh, could you excuse us for a moment?
Sure...
[hushed] Thought she'd be more impressed.
[hushed] She's from Manehattan. If we wanna impress her, we need to really wow her!
Hmmmm.
[gasps] [hushed] The float! She can ride with us on our Summer Harvest Parade float!
[hushed] That's perfect! This really is a good spot for thinking up great ideas.
Mm-hmm.
Here it is! The official Cutie Mark Crusaders float for the Summer Harvest Parade!
As a member of the Cutie Mark Crusaders, you'd be able to ride on it with us! It'd be totally fun.
More like funny...
What is that thing, a giant orange?
It's a pumpkin.
More like a lame-kin.
Who's the new blank flank?
She's mah cousin, Babs. She's from Manehattan!
Manehattan, huh? Well, I guess you have that going for you.
Suppose you're gonna join their little club? What's it called? The [mockingly] Cutie Mark Crusaders?
Hey!!
Oooo, heh, big city attitude! I like it!
Mm-hmm!
Oh no, she didn't!
Looks like somepony's pumpkin just got squashed!
When ah tell Applejack–
You gonna tell Applejack what?
W-well, y'know, uh...
What're you, a snitch?
Come on, Babs, you should hang with us! Y'know, the cool ponies, not these babies!
What... just happened?
I think Babs just went to the dark side.
We have to tell Applejack!
No! We're not snitches!
Yeah! And we're not babies!
Then... why do I feel like crying?
I still can't believe she ruined our pumpkin float.
I still can't believe I'm related to such a big stinkin' bully!
[sighs] What are we gonna do?
We're gonna build a new float, that's what.
Why bother? She'll probably just ruin that one, too.
We could always tell Applejack.
[echoing] What are you, a snitch?
No!
We're not gonna be a bunch of tattle-tales! Besides, she's only here a couple of weeks. We'll just avoid her like the plague until she goes home.
Avoid her. Yeah, how hard can that be?
[Apple Bloom, Sweetie Belle, and Scootaloo] Yeah, yeah, yeah  Yeah, yeah, yeah Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah
First, we thought that Babs was so really, really sweet A new friend to have, and it seemed like such a treat
But then, we found the truth; she's just a bully from the east She went from Babs, yeah, to a bully and a beast
Everywhere we turn, she's just a step ahead
[Apple Bloom, Sweetie Belle, and Scootaloo] Babs Seed, Babs Seed, what we gonna do? Got a bully on our tail Gotta hide, we gotta bail Babs Seed, Babs Seed, if she's after you Gotta run, we gotta flee Gotta hurry, don't you see? Babs Seed, Babs Seed, she's just a bad, bad seed
Yeah, yeah, yeah Yeah, yeah, yeah Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah
Hiding from a bully, we know it isn't right But the Cutie Mark Crusaders, we aren't lookin' for a fight
Oh, she'll go home soon, and then we'll have some peace again But for now, we're staying out of her way 'til then
Everywhere we turn, she's just a step ahead
[Apple Bloom, Sweetie Belle, and Scootaloo] Babs Seed, Babs Seed, what we gonna do? Got a bully on our tail Gotta hide, we gotta bail Babs Seed, Babs Seed, if she's after you Gotta run, we gotta flee Gotta hurry, don't you see?
Why so mean? Why so crude? Why so angry? Why so rude? Can't you be nice? Can't we be friends? Isn't it sad? Is this how it all ends?
Babs Seed, Babs Seed, she's just a bad, bad- Babs Seed, Babs Seed, she's just a bad, bad- Babs Seed, Babs Seed-
She's just a bad, bad seed!
Babs may have run us out of town, but at least we still have the club–
Hey! What're you doing at my clubhouse?
Y- y- your clubhouse?! This is our clubhouse!
Well, it was yours, and now it's mine.
And mine.
And mine.
That's not fair, Babs! We never did anything to you!
And let's keep it that way. Now scram, crybabies!
Babs Seed, Bump, bump, sugar-lump, rump!
That Babs has really gone too far this time!
Kicked out of our own clubhouse!
And my own bed!
Seriously?
Super-seriously.
We need to talk to Applejack.
No!
Rarity?
No!
Twilight?
No, no, no! We need to fight back!
Yeah! Fight back! How're we gonna do that?
[gasp] By makin' her the guest of honor at the Summer Harvest Parade!
[gasps] Yeah! Wait, what?
[laughs under her breath] When you look up 'embarrassed' in the dictionary... [deep breath] Her face will be there!
Moo! Moo!
Moo! Moo!
Are those from the Carousel Boutique?
Yup.
Excellent.
Ooh!
Luster dust from Sugarcube Corner. They use it for decorating cakes.
That must be what Rarity uses on her emergency edible boots!
The gears and bands for the moving mechanism, my tools and stuff... Did you bring the thing from the place?
What's that?
Granny Smith's kitchen timer.
What's that for?
C'mon, y'all, let's get to it. We only got a few hours before mornin', and this thing has to look so good, Babs won't be able to resist wanting to ride in it!
[yawns] Is this it?
[tired] I think... we're a go.
[tired] Good, 'cause we'd better get out of here before Babs finds us.
[tired] Cutie Mark Crusaders, ho!
"Roma": Hot carrot crêpes! Get 'em here, get 'em hot!
[blows] Whoaaaa...
Isn't it smashing? No! I-I didn't mean smashing! I mean... Isn't it a hit? No! No, I- No! No hitting! I meant–
Well, don't even think about riding it, Babs.
Ow!
You had your chance.
See ya later, Cutie Mark Crybabies!
[hushed] The timer set?
Teach her to fool with the Cutie Mark Crusaders!
Y'all are letting Babs ride in your golden apple float?
Yeah. We thought she deserved to be the... center of attention.
Well, that's just super sweet of y'all, makin' Babs feel so special. Y'know, after all the heartache she's been havin' in Manehattan.
Heartache?
Well, I didn't say nothin' 'cause I didn't want her to feel singled out, but there's been some bullies back in Manehattan just been teasin' her to pieces for her blank flank.
T-t-t-teased?
B-Bullies?!
Yup. She came up to the farm to get away from all her problems back home. I'm so proud of y'all. You've done a good deed.
So that's why she jumped in when Diamond Tiara and Silver Spoon started giving us a hard time.
She didn't want to be bullied like at home, so she decided to be a bully instead!
And now we've turned into bullies too!
What do we do?!
Nice float, Babs.
Snagged it from those whiny baby blank flanks.
Too cool for mule, Babs.
We gotta stop that float!
[almost inaudible] Applejack, quick you have to–
Huh?
[almost inaudible] Quick, you have to help us–
What?
We booby-trapped it!
Babs! Bully! Payback! No time to explain! We've just gotta get Babs out of that float!
Oof, my popcorn!
Sorry!
'Scuse me! Ah, whoops.
Whoa!
Pinkie Pie, let us in! ("lettuce in")
[laughs] Funny joke!
No, really! Let- us- in!
Ohhh! Here!
Babs! You gotta get out of that float!
You're not getting your float back, crybabies!
But it's booby tra–
Veggie salad!
Huh?
Veggie salad!
Seriously?
What the–
Babs! Babs!
Oof!
[yelling] Oooh, sweet applesauce!
Maybe we'll get our cutie marks in stupidest ideas of all time.
Are y'all okay?
Yeah... we're fine.
No sweat.
After I'd been so mean to ya... you saved me!
[sighs] About that...
I don't get it! I saw it all happen! You pushed me out just when the float was about to head into the lake!
Except... we were the reason it was headed into the lake.
We booby trapped the float.
Y'see Babs, we were tryin' to get you back for bein' a big bully...
But then Applejack told us about how you were being bullied back in Manehattan.
And we figured out you were just doing it to avoid getting picked on in Ponyville. But, by then... we were the ones being bullies. And... Oh, why does life have to be so ironic?!
Guess what we're trying to say is...
We're sorry.
[blows] I'm sorry too.
[sighs] Y'know, this all could've been avoided if y'all just came to me in the very beginning.
That's what I kept on saying!
So... can we... start over?
Definitely.
Yeah.
"We, the Cutie Mark Crusaders, elect Babs Seed to join us as a sister, friend, confidaynte, alley, boss-om buddy, gal pal, compader, chum of chums..."
Well you wrote this.
Oh, uh, yeah...
"Homegirl... Amiga..." Blah blah blah blah blah. Oh, yes, here. "...and fellow Cutie Mark Crusader! You are solemnly sworn in, here this day, in witness of your fellow sisters, friends, confidantes... boss-om buddies... compadres..."
Congratulations! [quickly, under her breath] Gotta remember to revise that.
So you promise you're gonna start our Manehattan branch of the Cutie Mark Crusaders, right?
Yeah, and I promise to keep talking to my big sis about the teasing back home.
Good. And if you have any problems, we've got your back too, y'hear?
So you're leaving huh? Great! Now we're stuck here with these lame blank flanks.
Hey! That's not how you talk to my friends!
F-friends?
Yeah, you got a problem with that?
Well, what if I do? What are you gonna do about it?
Tell your mothers about your bad attitudes!
I'm sure gonna miss that bad seed.
Bad seed? I thought y'all were friends now?
No, see, first we called her 'bad seed' as in actually a bad seed, but now she's bad as in good. Get it?
Yea... No.
May I help you, traveler? Hmm, something drew you to my shop... something powerful. Ah, you have a keen eye. The Alicorn Amulet is one of the most mysterious and powerful of all the known magical charms. Uh, ah— I'm afraid this is... far too dangerous.
[quickly] Would you like that gift-wrapped?
Don't be scared, little friends. Twilight is wonderful with magic. [to Twilight] Anything happens to them, Twilight, so help me...
Aww, don't worry, Fluttershy, Twilight's magic has gotten a lot better since she accidentally crushed me and Applejack with a giant snowball.
Of course she's good with magic. Twilight's great with magic. I guess I just don't want my little friends to be scared. Oh, oh, look how scared they are!
I promise, Fluttershy. Nothing bad will happen to them.
[high-pitched] I know! Stop, stop! They can't take it!
Twilight, that looks amazing!
Phew!
That's all for now, little ones. Maybe we can practice again later, if Fluttershy says it's alright.
Your magic has really improved since we came to Ponyville, Twilight. Princess Celestia's going to love it.
Thanks, Spike. I have to be at my best when she arrives with the delegates from Saddle Arabia. I can't believe she's trusting me with the entertainment.
Twilight! Come quick! It's an emergency!
[gasp] You beast! This shade of brown should only be used for accents!
Come on, Applejack. We've got to get her in a nice, soothing pink, stat!
What's going on here?
Well, well, well. If it isn't... Twilight Sparkle.
[gasps] Trixie!
What's she doing here?
You call that great and powerful?
Oh! She's Rainbow Wobble, now!
Yeah! Ha ha ha ha!
Good spell, oh Great and Powerful Trixie!
You two! Quiet!
Uh, hey! W— What happened?
Get off of me! Brbrbr.
Let go!
Go this way!
Stop picking on my friends, Trixie!
You and I have some unfinished business. My magic's gotten better since I was here last. And I'm going to prove it! Me and you, a magic duel. Winner stays, loser leaves Ponyville forever!
Forget it! I'd never make a deal like that!
Hm. Your choice.
Trixie, put him down. Why are you doing this?
Why? Because you humiliated me! After you showed me up with that Ursa Minor, I became a laughing stock! Everywhere I went I was laughed at and ostracized. I even had to take a job on a rock farm just to earn a living! A rock farm!
Hey! You're lucky a rock farm would take the likes of you!
Now I want revenge! And I'll just keep casting spells 'til you agree. Well? What do you say?
Whoooaah! Help... me!
Alright, Trixie. Let's duel!
Excellent.
If I lose, I won't set hoof in Ponyville again. But if you lose, you're the one banished from this one-horse town!
Draw!
Snips, Snails, step forward!
An age spell? But... how could you do an age spell? That's only for the highest level unicorns!
Well, Twilight? Give up?
Come on, Twilight, you can do it!
Trixie is the highest level unicorn! [laughs] And now it's time for you to leave Ponyville! FOREVER!
That's enough, Trixie!
You proved your point, but you can't possibly expect Twilight to leave Ponyville!
You fools! She's already gone!
It's okay, guys. I'll figure something out. Just take care of each other. And keep an eye on Trixie. There's something strange about her.
[grunts of exertion] Ugh! It's impossible! How could Trixie know such advanced magic? Without Spike, I can't get a message to the Princess in Saddle Arabia. So who else do I know who understands strange and powerful magic?
Your tale of woe upsets me so. [sips] No wonder you're dour. It's an abuse of power!
I don't know what to do, Zecora. I feel like I've abandoned my friends. But I can't take her on horn-to-horn.
[sips] If you train with me, so good you'll be. I'll show you the way to make sure she won't stay.
You'll train me in magic? But she was doing age spells, weather spells, you name it!
When it comes to magic, it would be tragic if somepony licked me, especially Trixie.
You really think I can beat her?
Mm-hmm.
Okay, when do we start?
You two! Hurry up with my throne.
And you, how long do I have to wait for my applesauce facial?
Forget it, Trixie! I ain't doing nothin' 'til you let Twilight come home! [laughs uncontrollably] Okay, I'll do it! Just make it stop! Hoo!
I thought I told you to dance!
Oh, Trixie's cruel magic is ruining Ponyville. Ow! [whines] Oh, somepony has to help us!
Ah, no noise, no sound, no din, no fuss must interfere with your focus. Unlearn what you have learned. Only then can victory be earned.
There is much, much that I can teach, but the answer you need may still be out of reach.
I'm sorry, Zecora. I'm trying my best, but... I can't stop thinking about Trixie. There was something different about her. It's like she's gone from high and mighty to mean and nasty.
Your thinking needs a readjust. Total concentration is a must.
Ugh, this really doesn't seem to be getting us anywhere.
I hear you, Pinkie. I can't find anything that describes the kind of magic Trixie's doin'.
Ugh, there must be something! Twilight has every magic book there is!
[quietly] Um, I think I may have found something?
Yes, it's time for us to consider our futures in this new Trixie-led Ponyville.
[quietly] Um, this sounds an awful lot like Trixie's magic–
She wants me to grow apples with no peels! Now how the hay am I supposed to do that?
[quietly] Um, there's a picture here of that necklace–
[quietly] It's called the Alicorn Amulet, and whoever wears it is blessed with untold—
Hey, everypony, look! This book has a picture of Trixie's necklace! It's called the Alicorn Amulet, and whoever wears it is blessed with untold powers!
[quietly] If you read a little further, you'll see—
[reading] Even though it provides great power, it also corrupts the user!
[quietly] Yes, but, um, you can't—
[reading] You can't just take the Alicorn Amulet off her neck, it has a magical lock! Trixie's the only pony who can take it off!
[quietly] Maybe we could—
We need to get this information to Twilight. She'll know what to do.
[quietly] But, h— how—
If any of us try to leave, Trixie's magical force field will tell her!
[quietly] Maybe we should—
I've got it! Trying to sneak past the force field would be impossible without help, but I know who's got the goods to get into those woods!
[quietly] It— it must be—
Fluttershy!
Whaaat?!
What do you say, Fluttershy? Can you handle the mission?
No! I'll crack under the pressure! I'll snap like a twig!
Perfect! Fluttershy'll sneak out of Ponyville and find Twilight.
But— but I, I—
[teeth chattering] [sighs] Okay.
Alright!
I know just the design for a dangerous mission outfit!
Pull, you fools! [cracks whip] Somepony set off the magic force field, and Trixie intends to punish them!
[gasping] But... wouldn't it be faster if we had some... wheels?!
The Great and Powerful Trixie doesn't trust wheels. Now pull faster!
[gasping] I'm telling ya, Snips, she's getting weirder and weirder!
Stop! You there! What are you doing?!
Gah, why is she so mean to us?
Yeah! I miss the days when she was just a fraud!
Oh, okay, okay, you're right. I need to be brave and find Twilight.
Oh! Y— you found her?
She's in the Everfree Forest?!
Oh, this is me being brave! I wanna be brave at home, locked in my closet, with my teddy bear!
I can't believe I didn't recognize the Alicorn Amulet!
The more she uses it, the more it will corrupt her!
But how am I supposed to beat that amulet? My magic's not good enough!
Twilight Sparkle, much work have you done. You learned all of my lessons; all but one. If Trixie's tricks have you in a fix, you must nix your magic and use the six.
Nix your magic, use the six... Nix your magic, use the six! Use the six! That's it! Zecora, you're a genius! Now we'll need to get you back inside Ponyville, Fluttershy.
This better not be another false alarm, or the Great and Powerful Trixie will– [gasps] You! [muffled] What's the matter, Twilight Sparkle? Not enjoying your exile?
I know about the Alicorn Amulet. I know you cheated.
Cheated? Moi?
Yeah. And I thought you might wanna see what a real magical amulet looks like. Zecora gave it to me. [muffled] It's from beyond the Everfree Forest, [normal] and it's way more powerful than your measly little Alicorn Amulet!
Ha! Nothing's more powerful than the Alicorn Amulet! And nopony's more powerful than the Great and Powerful Trixie!
[muffled] Care to put your amulet where your mouth is? [normal] How about another duel?
[muffled] Why should I? I already beat you.
That's up to you! But I guess you'll never see the totally awesome magic from beyond the Everfree Forest. Come on, Zecora.
Wait!
Okay, okay, you're on! A second duel.
Let's start with a simple age spell, shall we?
Let's.
Snips, Snails.
An oldie, but a goodie, ha. Now, let's see what your little charm can do.
No problem. Um, Applejack, Rarity? Could you help me, please?
Huh?
Huh?
Oh, ho-hum. So you can do an age spell, big deal.
That's... That's impossible!
That's nothing!
Yow!
How did you–
Duplication spell. Ever see one pony play ten instruments?
This... just can't be!
Ooh, one more. I can turn a mare into a stallion.
Big McIntosh (as Male Applejack): (nervously) Eeyup.
Well, Trixie, looks like my amulet is more powerful than yours– Hey! Give it back!
[laughs] With this amulet, I shall now rule all of Equestria!
Witness, my subjects. Gaze upon an ever greater and 'powerful-er' Trixie!
Hey! [scoffs] I don't need that old Alicorn Amulet. I have this!
[laughs] Stop it! Tha— that tickles!
Tickles?! That was supposed to make you writhe in agony! This amulet is defective! [magic zap] Give mine back!
Sorry. This is going back into hiding where it belongs.
By the way, Trixie, the amulet around your neck? It's one of Zecora's doorstops.
[upset] But... how did you do those spells? Nopony can do those spells!
You're right. Not even me. Zecora taught me so much about magic while I was in exile. She even taught me when not to use it. My magic alone wasn't powerful enough to take on the Alicorn Amulet head to head, so I needed to use a different kind of magic – the magic of friendship. I also knew that the only pony who could get the amulet off your neck was you.
But... what about the pony with the ten instruments?
That's not magic. That was just Pinkie Pie.
Oooh!
Trixie?
It's the least I could do. I treated you and your friends so horribly when I was wearing that Alicorn Amulet. I just couldn't control myself. You can forgive me, can't you?
Hmmm. Sure.
Oh, good. Don't you think the Great and Apologetic Trixie is the most magnificent humble pony you've ever seen?!
Whoo-hoo!
[sips] Nice moves, kid.
Nice moves? Rainbow Dash thinks I've got–
[gasps] ...nice moves!
...Then, all of a sudden, I'm airborne! And Rainbow Dash looks over and was like, "Nice moves, kid."
Woooow.
She really said that?
I mean, it's like she practically told me she wanted to take me under her wing, teach me everything she knows, and become like my big sister!
I dunno about all that.
It was a really nice compliment and all, but...
I know, I know. But all that stuff I said could happen, right?
Sure.
Absolutely.
I just need to find a way to spend some time with her, y'know, so she can see more of my awesomeness.
Well... Applejack and I are supposed to be campin' up at Winsome Falls this weekend. Maybe I could get my big sis to invite Rainbow Dash, and then you could come, too!
Really?!
Sure!
I wanna go...
Well, duh, of course you can go!
And I'll get Rarity to come too! Rarity loves camping!
I despise camping! All of that... [shudders] ...nature.
Oh, all right! Ooh! Of course I will need to find an outfit more appropriate for 'roughing it'. Ooh!
See? Told you she'd wanna go.
You packed bug spray?
Yup. You got the canteens?
Yup. Looks like we're all set then.
Hey!
Gee, Rarity, did you remember to pack?
Oh, well, let's see who gets the last laugh when you're absolutely desperate to curl your lashes, and you realize you didn't bring your eyelash curler.
Well, looks like we're all set now.
But what about Rainbow Dash? Isn't Rainbow Dash coming?
'Course she is, sugarcube. She's gonna meet us up at our first campsite.
Oh.
Alright, y'all, let's move 'em out!
Oh, are we there yet?
The last thousand times you asked that, the answer was no. This time, it's actually yes. There's Rainbow Dash up there right now.
[quietly] Alright, Scootaloo, just play it cool. [normal] Hey Rai–
[clears throat] Hey, Rainbow Dash! What's up?
What took you guys so long?
Well, some of us didn't pack as light as the others. So we were slowed down a bit.
Looks like you'll be sharing a tent with me, huh?
Heh, if that's okay with you.
Sure! Long as you don't snore. You don't snore, do you?
Nope. No way. Not me. Never snored a day or [laughs nervously] night in my life.
Then you and I are gonna get along just fine.
You have got to be kidding me.
Sweetie Belle, do be a dear and see if you can find some fresh flowers for my bedside vase.
[mimicking Rarity] Scootaloo, do be a sweetheart and see if you can gather some firewood.
Seriously though. Can you get us some wood for the fire?
Of course!
Okay, everybody get comfortable, 'cause I'm about to tell you the best story you've ever heard.
Is it about the time when Rarity had wings, and then they got ruined, and then you saved her from plummeting to her doom?
Okay, maybe it's the second best story you've ever heard. But probably still the scariest. [spookily] You like scary stories, right?
[gasps] Mm-hmm.
It all happened on a night just like this one, in a forest, just like this...
...And then, The Olden Pony asked, [mimicking aged voice] "Who's got my rusty horseshoe?"
Not me!
You do!
[clears throat] Something in my throat. I wasn't scared at all, heheh. Good story.
Knew you wouldn't be scared. The way you jumped that cart the other day, you're like me – fearless.
[coddling] Don't worry. Rarity is here to keep you safe and sound. Ooh!
[yawns] Think it's about time for me to hit the straw.
Don't you worry, little sis. There's no 'Olden Pony' in our tent.
[nervously] Haa, that sure was funny, wasn't it? Heheh. How they were all afraid of The Olden Pony? Heh, but not me, heh!
That's because you're tough, just like when I was your age!
I'm hitting the sack. Come in whenever you feel like it.
[nervously] It's, it's nothing... Just my imagination...
[nervously] And that isn't the thundering stomp of The Olden Pony...
I-Is anyone out there?
Who got my rusty horseshoe?
Who's got my rusty horseshoe?
[cries] [dash] [panting] Rainbow Dash–?
You do!
[yawns] What's that noise? Is there a bug in here? [sighs] I dunno about you, but I slept like a filly.
[nervously] Best night ever.
Glad you're rested up, because we've got a long trek ahead. Totally gonna be worth it when we get to Winsome Falls.
Ohh... Am I sweating? Oh! I think I'm sweating! Oh, uh, but it's absolutely worth it to get to spend time with my little sister. It's just that this cart feels like it's getting heavier all the time!
I don't care if that's cart's as heavy as a pack of mules. If we don't get a move on, it'll be dark before we get to the campsite!
[gasps] Dark?! [wings buzzing] I'll just ride ahead and make sure the path is clear. We don't wanna be out here after dark, right?
Doesn't matter to me.
Well, y'know, [hushed] it's for the scaredy-ponies, heheh.
[fades in] That's why it's always important to bring your own trunk on any public outing.
[gasps] Um... don't come this way! Take the path! It's, heh, way better than going through the bushes.
You're more nervous than a worm in an apple on cider making day. What gives, Scootaloo?
Heh, nothing, just thought I heard something, aheh.
You sure you're okay? You seem a little jumpy.
Just getting my exercise! You know how important it is to stretch out those hindquarters every so often, aheh.
Uh, d-do you need a little help?
That's so sweet, thank you.
No need for tents tonight, y'all. We'll just take shelter in that cave.
All right! A deep, dark cave! Perfect for the story I've got for tonight. All we need is a campfire, and we're good to go.
[gulps] [nervously] Uh, of course...
[nervously] I'll be right back with lots of firewood from the deep... dark... not-scary-at-all forest!
Thanks.
[breathing heavily] [sighs] Okay. I can do this. On the count of three, I get those branches. One... two... three! [trembling] [sighs] [nervously] Here, branches branches branches...
Bbbbrrr! Hoo-wee! It's colder than a timberwolf's toenail. Bbbrr! Where's that Scootaloo?
[panicked laughing] Here you go!
That's it?
It's all I could find, 'cause, y'know, there aren't that many trees around here!
It's all we need. Why don't you sit with Rainbow Dash for a while?
Hey, I have an idea! How about I tell tonight's story?
Alright, just make sure it's a horrible one.
There once was a really really nice pony who lived in a bright and sunny land, where there are rainbows every day, and lots and lots of happy friends, and–
No offense, but it's not a real campfire story unless somepony's shaking. [spookily] I've been told that these very woods are haunted...
[spookily] ...by The Headless Horse! It gallops only at night–
If it doesn't have a head, then how in tarnation does this pony know where it's goin'?
It's headless, not brainless. [spookily] ...looking for little lost ponies–
So where's its brain?
[spookily] [crossfades in] ...and they were never heard from ever again!
[gasps] Never?
Never.
Don't worry, you'll be safe with me tonight.
It's not time for bed yet, is it?
'Fraid so, Scootaloo.
You don't have to ask me twice!
Good night, Sweetie Belle.
Good night, y'all.
Good night, y'all.
Sleep tight.
Oh, just one more song! Anyone? [whoosh] How about a dance contest? I know you love to cut a rug, so how 'bout we mess up a cave floor? I have a brilliant idea! Hide and seek! Who's with me?
[yawns] Maybe tomorrow.
Aww.
Seems like you don't really wanna go to sleep tonight. Is there some reason why?
Pfft, of course not! I just love camping and hanging out with Rainbow Dash so much that I don't wanna waste a single minute with sleep! [yawns] Heh, silly sleep.
That's cool and all, Scoot, but this pony needs her shut-eye and she needs it now!
[gasps] If The Headless Horse catches me, I'm never gonna be heard from again! And I wanna be heard from! Woah, woaaah! Ugh! [grunts] Woah!
[panting] Aaah!
[echoing] A warm welcome to you, Scootaloo.
Princess Luna! I thought you were The Headless Horse!
You were mistaken, but I hope not disappointed.
You are so, so much better than The Headless Horse. But what are you doing here? Shouldn't you be in Canterlot?
I am the princess of the night. Thus it is my duty to come into your dreams.
Oh, yeah... Wait, is this just a dream? But it feels so real!
I assure you that you are asleep. But when you awake, the thing that frightens you most will still exist.
[nervously] Eh... The Headless Horse?
Hmmm... Is The Headless Horse really what frightens you the most?
Mm-mm. I'm afraid Rainbow Dash will find out I'm not as tough as she thinks I am.
Everypony has fears, Scootaloo. Everypony must face them in their own way. But they must be faced, or the nightmares will continue.
Face your fears!
–Princess Luna?! [sighs] It was just a dream.
[gasps] But The Headless Horse isn't! Rainbow Dash said it lives here, in these very woods!
[panting] So it's a horse without a head... which means it doesn't have a mouth... and if it doesn't have a mouth, then... it's not a horse-eat-pony kind of horse... but still... it's a horse without a head!
Hello?! Is anyone out there? [nervously] Anyone except The Headless Horse?
Heellllp–
I gotcha!
Rainbow Dash! Is that you? Thank you, thank you!
What were you doing out here in the middle of the night?!
[echoing] It is time for you to face your real fear, Scootaloo!
Hey, I'm gonna tell you something, but if you ever tell anypony else, I'm gonna deny it. First time I heard those stories... I was scared too.
[sniffles] You were?
Sure! I mean, I got over it because I realized pretty quick that if there was such thing as a Headless Horse, I could totally take it on. So, you're looking for somepony to take you under their wing, huh?
Mm-hmm.
Yeah, I might be up for something like that.
Really?
As long as you don't go falling into any more rivers in the middle of the night.
[giggles] It's a deal!
I call sister teams! Last herd to make it to the falls is a moldy carrot!
Ugh, if you insist. [giggles] It is so on!
They think they can beat the two of us?
[grumbling] Who's got my rusty horseshoe?
Here it is, for pony's sake. Now take it and stop all your moaning.
Thank you, and have a nice day.
Ooooh, I wish the mailpony would just come already! I can't wait another minute to find out if Rainbow Dash got in or not!
Pinkie Pie, you're more nervous than Rainbow Dash.
I'm not nervous at all. When I get into the Wonderbolt Academy...
IF you get in! If you get in! Don't jinx it!
I'm telling you, it's in the bag.
Don't jinx it!
She is the best flyer in Ponyville.
In Ponyville? I'm probably the best flyer in all of Equestria. I wouldn't be surprised if they just went ahead and made me a Wonderbolt on the first day.
Got a letter here for Rainbow Dash.
I... didn't get in.
Gotcha! Ha, you guys are so gullible. Like I wasn't gonna get in!
I'm just sooooooooooo happy for you!
Uh... thanks?
Pinkie Pie? I kinda need to get going.
Okay. I'm done!
The sooner I get there, the sooner I get to show 'em my stuff! See you guys in a week!
Good luck!
Won't need it!
DON'T FORGET TO WRITE!!! [echoing] [to others] Do you think she heard me?
Oh, yeah! This is gonna be sweet!
Well, lookie what we got here. Bet y'all think you're Wonderbolt material, don't ya?
Yes, ma'am!
Think you got what it takes to be an elite flyer?
Yes, ma'am!
Well then. Let me be the first to tell you... You don't! If you had what it took to be an elite flyer, you'd already be a Wonderbolt! Still think you're something special?
No, ma'am!
[to Bulk Biceps] Ya think you're hot stuff? [to Rainbow Dash] You look like you're the worst flyer in the whole academy! You'll probably quit after the first day!
No, ma'am! I'd never quit, ma'am!
Ha. What about you? Bet you couldn't fly past the first flagpole without getting winded.
Try me, ma'am.
What's that?
Let me show you what I've got, ma'am.
Ah. You want a chance to prove yourself, huh?
Yes, ma'am!
Well then, now's your chance. Give me five hundred laps! All of you!
Lap four-hundred and ninety-nine!
One more lap to go!
You're on!
Five hundred!
Not bad... for a couple of newbies.
Name's Lightning Dust.
Rainbow Dash!
Wanna grab some grub in the mess hall?
Definitely.
Pinkie Pie, Rainbow Dash hasn't even been gone twenty-four hours yet. Give her a chance to settle in first. Why don't we just go see what Twilight's up to? I hear Princess Celestia's got her workin' on some new spells!
So in other words, you're stickin' by the mailbox.
Yep!
Suit yourself.
The Wonderbolts are the fastest, best precision flyers in the world. But spin-outs can still happen. And when they do, a Wonderbolt must be able to recover quickly. This... is the Dizzitron. It's gonna make you very – I repeat – very dizzy. Your task is to try and recover and fly straight again, as soon as possible. Once you have recovered you must come in for a smooth landing. Now, who's first? [to Meadow Flower] You. You're up.
Now! Ready?
Yes, ma'am!
Go!
Release!
Huh. Fifteen seconds. Decent, but I wouldn't go writin' home about it! Who's next? Alright, Rainbow Dash. Let's see what you got.
Yes, ma'am!
Okay, go!
Release! Six seconds? That's an academy record.
You made it look so easy.
I make everything look easy.
Okay, Lightning Dust. You're up.
Ma'am, can you put the Dizzitron at maximum speed? I wanna push my limits.
You sure about that?
Yes ma'am.
Okay. You asked for it.
Release! Six point five seconds. Not bad.
Heh!/Oh yeah!
Next!
No pony even came close to six seconds.
They should make us Wonderbolts right now.
Yeah, they should.
Listen up! For the rest of the camp, you'll be working in pairs. 'Morrow morning, I'll post the teams, including who'll be lead pony and who'll be wingpony. Good luck.
Like we're going to need it.
Heh, yeah.
So, which one of you lucky gals gets to be my wingpony? What?
Eh, you might want to check the wall.
A wingpony?
They made us a team! Isn't that awesome?
Permission to enter, ma'am.
What is it, Rainbow Dash?
I had the best time on the Dizzitron! Only six seconds!
And?
And you made me a wingpony!
Because I believe you and Lightning Dust will be an unstoppable team. Do you not think you'll be an unstoppable team?
Yes, ma'am! I mean no, ma'am! I mean... We'll be an unstoppable team, ma'am.
Then what's the problem?
I think I should be lead pony, ma'am.
And I think Lightning Dust likes to push herself a little harder than you do. That's why I made her lead pony. Got it?
Yes, ma'am.
Good.
Today you will all be participating in a flag hunt. We'll divide you into two teams, red... and blue. Whoever finds the most flags of the opposing team's color wins.
Oh, this is gonna be so much fun!
If you think this is gonna to be fun, you are sadly mistaken. This is for training purposes. This is not recess. Lead ponies and wingponies must fly together. If any pair splits apart, they will be immediately disqualified. Do you understand?
Yes, ma'am!
Ready to rock and roll?
Ready.
You spotted any flags yet?
Not yet. Oh! There's one!
Good eyes!
We should slow down. It doesn't look like both of us can make it at this speed!
Peh.
Ow!
Lightning Dust and Rainbow Dash found the first flag!
Come on! Let's find some more!
Uh, sure. Just give me a second.
Oh, you're fine.
She's still at it.
I just wish we could help her.
Help me? The only thing that could possibly help me right now is a letter from Rainbow Dash! It's been three days already. By now, she probably doesn't even know our names anymore! She probably can't remember our faces! "Pinkie Pie? I never heard of a Pinkie Pie! Who is Pinkie Pie?"
Well, if you're so worried, then why don't you send her a letter first?
Of course! That's a great idea!
Oh wait! I got an even better idea! How about we send Rainbow Dash a care package? You know, before she forgets all about us? Although, come on, let's face it. It's probably too late for that. But, uh, maybe it'll jog her memory somehow.
Pinkie Pie, I'm sure Rainbow Dash still remembers our faces and who we are. But I think sending her a care package is a great idea.
A care package it is! We'll send it through the mail! WAIT! Ah! That won't work at all!
Why not?
Because what if the package gets lost in the mail? What if somepony else gets the package by accident and then she remembers us instead of Rainbow Dash and then she becomes our new friend? And then the real Rainbow Dash won't ever know that she used to have friends and she forgot them!
Is anypony else followin' this?
Fluttershy, Twilight, Mmm-mm.
I've got it! We'll deliver the care package to Rainbow Dash in person!
I wouldn't mind a little trip.
I'll go!
Count me in!
Me too.
Me five! But don't be upset if she doesn't recognize you at first. It may take a while for her to get her memory back.
Today we'll be doing our famous air obstacle course.
Ugh! Can't they go any faster? It's no good, I can't get around them!
Doesn't matter! We can still fly completely in sync and blow Spitfire's mind with our moves!
I guess...
What are they, a couple of snails? It's just a little weather.
Now's our chance to pass these slowpokes!
Not bad! And in record time, too! Definitely made the right decision making you two a team. The others seem to have had a little trouble with the precision part of the exercise. I'd better go help sort them out. Why don't you two go hit the mess hall early?
Yes, ma'am!
Thank you, ma'am. Um, Lightning Dust? Next time, maybe we don't cut the other teams off like that.
Hey, you snooze, you lose! Besides, Wonderbolts are supposed to be able to recover from a spin-out. You saw them on the Dizzitron! They could use the practice. I mean, it's not our fault we're so much better than those other guys! Not every pony is destined to become a Wonderbolt. Only the best of the best, right?
Yeah, I-I guess you're right...
'Course I'm right! Now let's go fuel up! Kicking all that tail has made me hungry.
[chomp] Yeah!
I have an idea about how we can literally blow away our competition.
But we're already way ahead.
Are you in or not?
[echoing] Lightning Dust likes to push herself a little harder than you do. That's why I made her lead pony.
I'm in!
Then follow my lead!
I can't control it!
It's a twister!
Hold on!
Noooooo!
[screaming] Huh?
Are you guys okay?
Rarity, Twilight, Uh-huh.
Pinkie Pie!
You... remember me!
Well... yeah, of course I remember you. But... what are you all doing here?
We wanted to bring you a care package. Didn't realize you'd be in the middle of some crazy tornado drill.
That... was... awesome!
Awesome? My friends could have been smashed to pieces!
Yeah, but they weren't, right? Can't say the same for the clouds. We totally wiped them out with that tornado. The other cadets will have to be up there for days to bust as many as we did.
A hoof bump? Seriously? You made me clip my wing. You sent half of our class into serious tailspins on the obstacle course. You unleashed a tornado that nearly demolished my friends!
Yeah, and?
And I get that you want to be the best. So do I! But you're going about it in the wrong way.
The Wonderbolts don't seem to think so. After all, Spitfire did make me the leader and you the wingpony.
[sigh] You're right. She did.
This better be important. You're supposed to be up there busting clouds with your partner.
We're done with that, ma'am.
Already? That's an academy record! Explain your methods.
That's why I'm here, ma'am. Lightning Dust decided to use a tornado.
A bit excessive for cloud-busting. But judging from your time, it was obviously an effective tactic.
Yeah, well that "effective tactic" nearly took out my friends! No disrespect, ma'am, but there's a big difference between pushing yourself as hard as you can and just being reckless. And if being reckless is what gets rewarded around here, if that's what it means to be a Wonderbolt, then I don't want any part of it.
What are you saying, newbie?
I quit.
You did what?!
Being a Wonderbolt was your dream!
Not anymore.
I'm sorry, Rainbow Dash. I know how much this meant to you.
Rainbow Dash! How dare you storm out of my office without giving me a chance to respond! The Wonderbolts are looking for the best flyers in Equestria, but you were right. Being the best should never come at the expense of our fellow ponies. It's not just about pushing ourselves. It's about pushing ourselves in the right direction. You've shown that you're capable of doing just that. You're no wingpony, Rainbow Dash. You're a leader.
OhmygoshOhmygoshOhmygoshOhmygoshOhmygosh!
Now get out there and give me twenty!
Yes, ma'am!
Wait! You didn't even get to open your care package!
Ha! Found 'em!
Aaa-choooo!
Heh. Gesundhoof.
Why, thank you, Applejack. I still can't believe it's been almost one hundred moons since our last family reunion. Aw, I remember it like it was yesterday.
Well, you have been talkin' about it pretty much every day since then.
Apple Bloom! How them RSVPs comin' along? Who's showin' their muzzle at the reunion?
Everypony!
Everypony? [aside, to Applejack] Feathers on a goat. [to Apple Bloom] Are you sure?
Well, I got RSVPs from Apples from Yonder Hill, Hollow Shades, Galloping Gorge, Foal Mountain, Apples from Fillydelphia, Tall Tale Town, and all the Apples from Appleloosa!
Guh?
Oh! And how could I forget? Manehattan! Babs is comin'! I get to see my favorite cousin!
I think we're gonna need a bigger cider trough.
Whooeee! Looks like the family's grown tenfold since the last reunion! I'm gonna be busier than a worm in a rotten tomater tryin' to get everything ready!
I could always help out.
Me, too!
Eeyup.
Oh, I sure would appreciate that. Granny's a little rustier in the giddy-up since the last time the Apples all got together.
You may be a tad old, Granny, but you're as feisty and full of spark as ever–
Who you callin' old?!
Uh... I just meant... Why don't you let me take over puttin' the reunion together this time 'round? Then all you need to worry about is enjoyin' yourself.
Hmmm. Alright, young'un, you got yourself a deal. You are in charge.
I won't let you down, Granny. You just tell me what the reunion needs, and I'll take care of the rest.
I'll do better than tell you what the reunion'll need. I'll show ya!
We've been hostin' these things at Sweet Apple Acres every hundred moons since we first planted roots here in Ponyville.
Hey, who's that?
That'd be your Great-Great-Auntie Applesauce when she was just about your age. Now, she used to go by another name, but everypony started calling her Applesauce after half her teeth fell out when she was makin' apple jam. Yeah. Never did find them teeth in all those jars.
Hey! That's you, Granny!
Sure is. Apple family's been workin' on that same old quilt since our first reunion.
I can do it! Ngh! Oh, fingle-fangle!
Well, nopony told me you actually had to knot the end of the thread!
Okay, so I'll need to get new quiltin' materials, fabric, needles, thread... You've really been workin' on the same quilt since the first reunion?
Surely have. I don't think we're ever gonna finish that doggone thing!
Hey, what's goin' on here?
Well, you know us Apples enjoy a good fritter...
[licking lips] [munches] Ooo, hot hot hot!
Hey, where did all them apple fritters go?
And...
Who are you, little one?
I'm Applejack! More apple fwitter?
That's how we figured out your sister had the appetite of a full-grown stallion.
Better get twice as much honey and flour, then... fifty more buckets of apples... more oil... wood for the fire...
Now, stick an apple in my mouth and roast my rump! This one sure brings back memories. Y'know how Babs is your favorite cousin? Well, Apple Rose is mine. The two of us entered the seven-legged race every reunion!
We're gonna win this one, cousin!
You bet your hot-diggety-derriere we are! C'mon, cousin, speed'er on up!
Never won a single one of them races.
Races. We'll need cloth ties, finish line... Not much to a seven-legged race. Hmm...
And, of course, we can't forget to take the big family photo! We always snapped a photo in front of the barn at the end of every reunion, let's us see how our family's grown!
Photo in front of the barn. Got it.
You sure have some great memories of these reunions, don'tcha?
Indeedy, and I'm lookin' forward to makin' more at this one. Oh, I'm sure everypony is, and I do mean everypony! We got the whole family together this time 'round! Who knows if they'll all be able to make the next one?
That's true! Busy as everypony's lives are gettin' these days, chances are pretty slim we'll be this lucky next time 'round. Don't worry, Granny, I'm gonna make sure this is the most memorable reunion we've ever had! I'd better get started... I've got some plannin' to do!
Oh, hootenanny! Would you look what your second cousin is wearin' on her head?
Apple Bloom! What are you doin' up?
I was gonna ask you the same thing.
I can't sleep. My gears are turnin' in my head about this reunion!
[yawning] Yeah... I can't wait to see my cousin Babs. We're gonna do so many fun things together...
Fun? That's just the beginnin' of it! Granny Smith handed me the reins of this reunion, and I'm gonna make the most of it. Apple Bloom, I've got so many things planned you won't even have a minute's rest!
Trust me, little sis. This reunion I'm puttin' together is gonna be worth the wait.
[snoring] Whoa!
Rise and shine! We don't have much time!
[belches] Don't forget the glitter!
H-ah. Think that'll do it!
And just in time, too.
They're here!
Apple Rose! Ohhh! Ooh, this is more excitin' than when it rained frogs!
[through megaphone] Howdy, y'all, and welcome to the Apple family reunion!
[through megaphone] My name's Applejack, and I just want to let y'all know that I got a real big day planned for ya! We're gonna start off with an obstacle course for the young'uns, and some fritter makin' and quiltin' for the not-so-young'uns. And there's lots more to come after that! Hope y'all enjoy it!
Where is she?
Babs!
Cuz!
I know it hasn't been that long since we've seen each other, but–
–It felt like forever!
I can't wait to tell you about my new school!
I can't wait to hear all about it!
Jeepers, where do I start? Okay. So first day–
Babs! Huh, so glad you could come!
Why don't you two head over to the obstacle course?
We kinda wanna catch up a little bit first...
Don't you worry. There'll be plenty of time for family bondin' while you're racin' against your other cousins.
Alrighty, ponies! Ready to have some fun?
Whoa, is that the finish line? It's like a mile away or somethin'!
Actually, that's just the marker where you go on to the next leg of the race.
There's more?
Much more. Trust me, I have put together somethin' you are never gonna forget. After the seven-legged race, you're gonna wanna hurry up and head over here, where you'll be bobbin' for apples!
Then you'll run around these trees fifty times until you're real good and dizzy. Then you'll jump these big wooden hurdles. And then there's the final leg, where you'll balance plates on your head while sayin' "Pappy pony picked a pluck of prickly pluffnuggets" over and over and over again. Last pony standin' wins!
Seriously?
Seriously! C'mon, y'all! Let's start makin' some memories! On your mark... get set... go!
Whooeee! Lookin' good, everypony! Ooh, better go check on the quilt.
How long you had those new choppers, Auntie Applesauce?
A lady never reveals the age of her teeth.
Ugh.
Don't you roll your eyes at me, Miss Apple Rose! I imagine you two think I have forgotten what you did to my parasol six reunions ago?
[giggles] We were just usin' it to help break open that piñata!
Applejack, delightful to see you. Are you gonna join us in some quiltin'?
Sorry, Auntie Applesauce, I am busy-busy-busy. Y'all should get started, though!
We couldn't find our rocking chairs.
I got rid of 'em to make room for these. This is the year y'all are finally gonna finish that quilt!
Finish it?
[over noise] Won't that be excitin'?
[over noise] What's that?
[over noise] I said, won't that be–
–excitin'?
I suppose, although I have been told that too much excitement can wreak havoc on this youthful complexion of mine.
Oh.
[over noise] That's the spirit!
[over noise] What did she say?
[over noise] What?
[over noise] Good gracious!
[over noise] Golden Delicious? I think he's racing with his cousin!
[dizzy] How are Scootaloo and Sweetie Belle?
[dizzy] Great! Ugh...
[dizzy] You alright?
Ugh...
You've got eight now, dont'cha?
Oh, sure do. Tell you what, my Apple Tart may just be a baby, but he is a hoot!
Havin' fun?
Sure are!
Better pick up the pace on those fritters though, huh? Roll, fold, crimp, slide to the left. Roll, fold, crimp, slide to the left. Roll, fold, crimp, slide to the left. Now you try! That's it! Gotta keep this assembly line movin', gals! We want every Apple here to get a chance to taste the best darn fritters in Equestria!
Pappy pony picked a pluck of prickly pluffnuggets.
Any other blank flanks at your new school?
Yeah. Two.
Pappy pony picked a pluck of prickly pluffnuggets.
Do they wanna be Crusaders?
Totally!
Great!
Pappy pony picked a pluck of prickly pluffnuggets. Pappy pony picked a pluck of prickly pluffnuggets. Pappy pony picked a pluck of prickly pluffnuggets.
Ah can' thfeel my tongue.
Neh nehber.
[through megaphone] Alright, Apples, break!
[sighs] Finally...
Ooh, can't forget to capture all these memories for Granny's album! Huh. Nothin' all that memorable there. Or there. Or there. C'mon, Applejack, think. You gotta kick this thing up a notch! Hm...
I get that my big sis wants this to be like a super-awesome reunion, but that was ridiculous!
I thought we'd never get a minute to just hang out!
And your minute's up! Your fellow Apples are waitin' for you to join them.
Applejack, I haven't had any time with Babs! We were so busy with that obstacle course, we didn't even get to talk!
There'll be plenty of time to bond with Babs when we do the hayride.
Hayride?
Alright, everypony! Step right up, take a seat, and leave the drivin' to these stallions! Now, I know y'all've been workin' real hard makin' some awesome memories. And in all of our past reunions, we always had a nice and relaxin' hayride around the farm. Which is why I decided to change things up a bit, and try somethin' just a wee bit more excitin'. So let's get this show on the road! Giddy-up!
Whoa!
[teethless] I just had those professionally polished.
Where in the world does that girl have us headed? The west orchard?
Eeyup.
Wowza! Never seen real fruit bats before!
Uh-oh.
Everypony! Jump out!!
[crying] Ruined. Everythin' is ruined.
Oh, Granny. I'm so, so sorry.
Oh, it's alright, child.
But it's not alright. Just look at this! The barn and all my plans for the perfect family reunion are completely destroyed!
Maybe that's a good thing.
How can that possibly be a good thing?
Applejack, you had us so caught up in all the doin', we haven't had a second to enjoy the company of the folks we've been doin' it with!
Really?
[sighs] Oh, Granny Smith, here you let me be in charge of creatin' great memories, and the only thing anypony's gonna remember about this reunion... is that it was the worst one we ever had.
Oh, hey now... everypony's still here, ain't they? Still plenty of time to make good memories! You've just got to give everypony a chance to actually make 'em.
The family photo! Guess we can't take it in front of the barn this year... unless... Everypony! I have one more activity!
Applejack...
Trust me, Granny Smith. This'll be one we'll remember for all the right reasons.
Yee-hoo!
Raise this barn, raise this barn One, two, three, four Together, we can raise this barn One, two, three, four
Up, up, up, go the beams Hammer those joints, work in teams Turn 'em round quick by the right elbow Grab a new partner, here we go
Yeah!
Come on, Apple family! Let's get to it! Wee-hoo!
Raise this barn, raise this barn One, two, three, four Together, we can raise this barn One, two, three, four
Finish the frame, recycling wood Workin' hard, you're doin' good Turn 'em round quick by the right elbow Grab a new partner, here we go
Yeah!
Whoo-whee!
Raise this barn, oh, raise this barn One, two, three, four Together, we can raise this barn One, two, three, four
Slats of wood come off the ground Hold 'em up and nail 'em down Turn 'em round quick by the left elbow Grab a new partner, here we go
Yeah!
Come on, Apples! Get 'er done!
Look at us, we're family
Workin' together thankfully
We Apples, we are proud to say
Stick together the pony way
Bow to your partner, circle right Get down if you're scared of heights Forward back and twirl around That barn's gonna be the best in town
Yeah!
Yee-haw! Attagirl!
Alright, let's get to it!
Raise this barn, raise this barn One, two, three, four Together, we can raise this barn One, two, three, four
Take your brushes, young and old Together, paint it, bright and bold Turn 'em round quick by the left elbow Grab a new partner, here we go
We raised this barn, we raised this barn Yes, we did Together we sure raised this barn Yes, we did
Being together counts the most We all came here from coast to coast All we need to strive to be Is part of the Apple family
Yeah!
Oh!
I can't wait for the next reunion!
Me neither!
I mean, obviously we have to get together before then!
[chuckles] Obviously.
Oh, you did it, Applejack! You put on a reunion that everypony will remember!
Just had a couple minor hiccups along the way.
Yeah, just a couple.
Ohohoh, that's a good one.
Oh!
Dear Princess Celestia,
Today I learned a great lesson about family, which, if you think about it, is really the first group of friends you ever make. Turns out that when you're with folks you care about, you don't have to do much to make that time memorable. Even the simplest of activities can take on a whole lotta meanin'! And you'll find that you'll remember the "who" long after you've forgotten the "what".
Your humble subject,
Applejack
Six, seven, eight, nine, ten, eleven, twelve.
Huh. That's not that many.
Are you kidding? How are you supposed to read twelve books in one weekend?
Princess Celestia obviously thinks I can or she would never have assigned them to me. I'm not planning on letting her down.
Well, I hope you're not planning on sleeping then, either.
Actually, Spike, why don't you take the day off?
Really?
Why not? These books are gonna keep me busy for a while.
Hmm... I do have a long list of things I've been dying to do!
"Touch nose with tongue." Eeeng... done! "Play bongos on my belly."
Done! "Smell my dirty feet." [sniffs] [sigh] Done! Huh, that didn't take nearly as long as I thought it would.
What to do, what to do...
[gasps] A hot air balloon ride!
[gasps] Oh no! Wait! Runaway balloon! Gah!
[groans] Sorry!
[relieved sigh] That was a close one. I-if I didn't know better, I would swear that I was in the middle of the dark and scary Everfree Forest.
Come 'n' get me, ya big goons! [to Spike] Run!
I'm running! I'm running!
Whew!
Wow, Applejack! That was amazing! I mean, you rocketed those boulders at them like they were... rockets! Pow, pow, pow pow pow! You saved my life! [softly] You... saved... my life.
Aw, don't mention it, Spike. C'mon, we should be headin' on back, now.
Man, am I lucky you were out here. Uh, why were you out here?
Saw the balloon floatin' by with nopony in it, came out here to investigate. Guess you did too, huh?
Uh... yeah... I was investigating the runaway hot air balloon too! So, uh, now that the mystery's been solved, let's get outta here, huh?
Thanks for walkin' me home, Spike. That was mighty kind of you. But now I have chores that need tendin' to, so see you later.
What chores? I'll do them!
That's sweet, but you don't have–
It's the least I can do! You saved my life! I need to repay the favor.
Shoot, Spike, that's what friends do for each other. You don't need to repay the favor.
Yes, I do!
Sugar, it's okay, it's not necessary.
Applejack, you don't understand! This is something I really need to do!
Well, I'd hate to get in the way of doin' somethin' you need to do...
Great! What should I do?
Uh... Apple Bloom's over yonder givin' little Piggington a bath. I was gonna lend her a hoof, but maybe you could lend her one instead.
On the double!
Applejack said I could help you!
Great! I could use all the help I can get!
Heh, wait 'til Applejack sees how you sparkle!
Ta-da!
Good job, you two.
Applejack, is it okay if I get goin'? I don't wanna be late for my Crusaders meeting. We're gettin' fitted for water skis!
Heh, you definitely don't wanna be late for that.
Water skiin' cutie mark, here I come!
Spike, you can head on out too. I reckon you have repaid me in full so we are officially even Steven.
What? Ohhh no. We aren't even close to being even Steven! Please, Applejack, you must allow me to assist you further!
I dunno, Spike. Just don't feel right to have you, uh, doin' things for me.
Please?
Really, you don't–
Pretty please?
It's just not necessary–
Pretty pretty pretty please?
[sigh] Oh, all right. You can help Granny Smith and me bake some–
Pies! Pies! I'm helping Applejack make some pies!
Uh, Spike, little feller, could you get us some more eggs?
Uh, oops, sorry, Applejack. Lemme get something to clean that up!
[sighs] Appreciate all your help today, sugarcube, but... I can take it from here.
Don't be ridiculous! It is my honor and my duty! Today's just the beginning!
What's that now?
You saved my life! [belches] According to the "Spike the Dragon Code", I owe you a life debt and must serve you.
Now, what about Twilight? Doesn't she need your help and such?
[breathes fire] Huh, you're right. I better break the news to Twilight. I just hope she doesn't take it too hard... Be right back!
Come on, Spike, this is your personal, moral, ethical dragon code we're talking about! You have to do this! It's not like you and Twilight won't be friends anymore... but it won't be the same... but it has to be done. Twilight, Applejack just saved my life from horrible, dragon-eating timberwolves!
Mm-hmm...
And, as you are aware, I adhere to my dragon code, and this means I must serve her for the rest of my natural born days! I'm sure you understand.
Mm-hmm...
It's... been an honor... being your faithful assistant.
Sounds good.
She said it was okay.
Really?
So, with Twilight's blessing, I'm free to follow my code and serve you until–
Well, until forever!
Listen, sugarcube, I completely respect your "dragon code"... Truly I do, but I just can't cotton with you permanently servin' me.
Please, Applejack, my dragon code is a part of me! I have to be true to myself! If you don't let me do this, I won't be a noble dragon anymore!
Oh, well, I can't have you feelin' like you're not a noble dragon now, can I?
Great! Then from here on in, your wish is my command.
Oh, uh, okay... I would like you to... hmm... huh... oh! ...Help me take some of the pie you made to...
Rarity?
Uh, sure, why not?
I helped bake it.
Eugh.
You even look good when you're chewing... [laughs nervously] W-who looks good when they're chewing?
Aren't you gonna have some more?
I... had a big lunch!
It's ten in the morning.
Breakfast. A big breakfast.
Ohhh. Okay.
Maybe you could take her plate back to the kitchen and wash it off?
As you wish!
What was that all about?
[sighs] I saved Spike from some timberwolves in the Everfree Forest, and now he thinks he has to serve me forever.
[delighted squeal] Oh, what I wouldn't give to have somepony forever in my debt! I'd get them to organize my closets, and give me pedicures, and help me with my sewing and–
Okay, I get it, havin' somepony to do things for you would be a dream come true. But I don't feel right havin' Spike thinkin' he owes me somethin'. You tasted that pie. Sometimes, his help isn't that helpful.
Do you... have a broom I could borrow?
AJ, Rarity, what's happening?
Applejack saved Spike's life and now he has to serve her forever.
Sweet! What are you having him do? Wash your laundry? Clean your room? Help you with your unfinished novel? Mine's about this awesome Pegasus who's the best flyer ever and becomes the captain of the Wonderbolts!
[sarcastic] How ever did you come up with that ingeniously woven intricate plot line?
Just came to me.
Thing is, I don't really want him to serve me forever, but I don't know how to get him to stop.
That's easy! Just make him help you with something really, really hard.
I dunno. I don't want him to get hurt.
Puh-lease. He'll quit way before there's even a chance of getting hurt!
[hushed, to Applejack] Leave this to me. [to Spike] Sooo, Spike, Applejack was gonna help me stack some hay so I could practice smashing through it, but I'm feeling extra, extra powerful today.
You are?
Yeah, I am. So instead of hay, I'm gonna smash through rocks!
Rocks?
Yeah! A huge tower of rocks! And you're gonna build it!
I am?
Yeah, I mean, unless you don't wanna help Applejack...
I do! It is Spike's dragon code!
Then get to it! [to Applejack] Trust me. This is gonna work like a charm!
Huh. I was sure he'd give up after, like, three rocks.
Oh, goodness. If it'd been me, I'd have just pretended I didn't have anything for him to do.
Why didn't I think of that?
[yelling] Is this high enough?
That's plenty high! Come on down, Spike!
Bad news: He actually ended up building the whole rock tower. Good news... [nervously] I've got a rock tower to knock down.
Haha, yeah! You can do it! Haha, hahah, alright, yeah!
That... was... awesome!
Wanna do it again, Rainbow Dash? Applejack can rebuild it for you. And when I say "Applejack", I of course mean me!
[dazed] Sure! Why not...?
No! I mean, I don't think Rainbow Dash needs any more of your help. My help. She doesn't need it. Right, Rainbow Dash?
Bbbbrrr. Yeah. I guess I'm good. For now.
And so am I! I just can't think of one more thing I need help with, so you don't have to do anything else.
W-What do you mean you can't think of anything else I can help with?
Exactly that! There's nothin' else. I don't want you to do anything.
If I don't help you, how will I know I'm a noble dragon?
Well, I–
Maybe there's things you need help with, but you don't even realize you need help with!
If she needed help, I think she'd realize it.
Maybe not! Maybe Applejack needs help realizing what she needs help with. Like... maybe your back itches!
Huuuuh... that does feel... good...
[laughs] See? Or you might need help remembering your favorite song! "The dragon is the finest creature ever, there's more to him than just guarding treasure..."
I don't think that's her favorite s–
Or... you might need help breathing!
Breathin'? I certainly do not–
See? There are plenty of things I can help you with, and you don't even have to trouble yourself with thinking of them!
No, I'll think of 'em. Lemme think of 'em.
As you wish.
Twilight? Twilight, are you there? Twilight!
Agh!
Sorry, I didn't mean to scare you.
[sighs] No, it's okay, I need to take a break anyway. What's going on?
I know Spike told you that he was gonna follow his dragon code, and serve me forever for savin' him from the timberwolves, and that you were okay with it, but–
Wait, what?
He said he told you all about it. I'm guessin' maybe you were a little distracted when he told you.
Um, maybe a little...
I should've realized you wouldn't have let him go so easily. Well, now that you know what's goin' on, maybe you could talk some sense into him!
Oh, Applejack, I wish I could, but this is dragon code we're talking about. Surely you know how important the dragon code is to a dragon!
I sure am startin' to.
Hm, there's only one other way Spike is gonna fulfill the debt he feels he owes you.
Seventy, seventy-one, seventy-two, seventy-three, seventy-four, seventy-five...
All right, y'all, here's the deal. Spike needs to save my life.
And you want us to shoot you out of a cannon towards a hornet's nest and give Spike a butterfly net so he can catch you mere seconds before you hit the nest and are stung by a thousand angry hornets! I'll wear this mustache.
No. I am gonna be attacked by a timberwolf!
Can I still wear the mustache?
When I give the signal, Pinkie Pie and Rarity will come runnin' out of the woods, bein' pursued by the timberwolf. I'll start to run too, but then pretend to get my hoof stuck. I'll ask Spike to help me dislodge it, and he will, and I'll be able to get away from the terrifyin' timberwolf! Havin' saved me from certain doom, Spike will then consider us even. Everybody get it?
Uh-huh.
I'll do my best.
Mm-hmm.
Just one question.
Yes? [beat] No.
[sighs] Suit yourself.
[clears throat] We are all ready to play our parts, ahem, but are you sure you are ready to play yours, Applejack?
What d'you mean?
Show us your best "damsel in distress" move.
Uh... Oh, well, aheh, how's this? Hooooooo.
Absolutely horrendous! Okay, this needs some serious work! Now, first, you must lift your foreleg up to your forehead, like so–
[in distance] Applejack?
No time! Here he comes! Uh... over here, Spike!
[pants] You said you had something else you needed me to do?
Oh, yes, I, I was just hopin' you could maybe, uh, sweep up all those leaves for a compost pile, and–
But of course. Oh, by the way, there are exactly twenty-four million, five hundred and sixty-seven thousand, eight hundred and thirty seven blades of grass at Sweet Apple Acres.
I can't believe you counted every single one of 'em...
You asked me to.
And, as a noble dragon and follower of my dragon code, I–
That was very convincing!
[screaming] Timberwolf! [sobbing] We are doomed!
[to Applejack] See? Like that.
[unconvincingly] Oh no! I seem to have got my hoof caught in between two rocks! I cannot run away! I am a damsel in distress! Help me, Spike!
Wait a minute.
No, no, don't wait a minute. Save me from the terrifyin' timberwolf!
Well, he would be terrifying if he wasn't a fake! You got the clomping on his claws...
...The roar was spot on, and the detail on his face is pretty good. But you forgot one thing: his breath! You could smell a real timberwolf's breath from a mile– [sniffs] [laughs] Too late, I'm already on–
Timberwolf!
Timberwolf!
Whooooah!
Ow!
Uh oh... Applejack, come on!
[grunting] I can't! I'm really stuck!
No more messing around! Let's go!
[grunting] Come on...
Forget it, Spike! You gotta get out of here! Would you just forget your dragon code already and go?!
No! I have to save you!
What happened to you guys back there? Thought you were right behind us!
My hoof was stuck, and that timberwolf was coming right at me!
Wait, you were actually stuck?
Uh-huh!
But Spike picked up a pebble, and rocketed that thing right at the huge timberwolf's mouth, and saved my life!
Aw, it was nothing.
It was somethin' alright! 'Course, I wouldn't've needed help if I hadn't been tryin' to stage a fake timberwolf attack in the first place.
Yeah, what was that all about?
[sighs] I know this code thing's important to you, but if somethin' like this comes up in the future, think maybe we can go back to my code, say "that's what friends do" and leave it at that? I promise I won't think of you as any less noble.
Sounds good to me. But, maybe let's just try to avoid situations where one of us actually needs the other one to save their life?
You got yourself a deal.
Thanks, Spike.
Happy to help!
Don't know what I'd do without you.
No, really! I'm really really really happy to help you!
[laughs] Oh...
I love it when Princess Celestia comes to Ponyville! I got my hooves shined just like Rarity for the occasion. Ya like?
I certainly do!
I'm surprised she's not here yet.
[sighs] I wonder what's taking so long?
And where are Applejack and Fluttershy?
Fluttershy's detained helping Applejack with a mishap at Sweet Apple Acres. They'll be along.
But, I still don't get why the Princess would be so late.
She's bringing an important visitor. That could be part of it.
A visitor who's important and slow.
Maybe it's somepony so terribly important, she still had many more terribly important things to do before she got here.
[gasp] Maybe the visitor has a deer antler, a goat leg, a bat wing, and a snake tail!
Yeah, right. That's Discord.
Why in the wide, wide world of Equestria would Princess Celestia bring along someone like that?
M-m-maybe you should ask... her!
Huh?
With all due respect, Princess Celestia, how could you bring Discord here?! [clears throat] Your majesty.
I'm fully aware that the last time Discord was here, he created serious havoc.
If by "serious havoc" you mean "turning Ponyville into the chaos capital of the world"...
...and tricking us all into being the opposite of our true selves...
And making yummy delicious chocolate milk rain all over the place without a single dollop of whipped cream to go with it anywhere in sight! Not a single dollop!
Yes, I understand. But I have use for Discord's magic if it can be reformed to serve good instead of evil. This is why I've brought Discord here, because I believe that you are the ponies who can help him do just that.
This will never work! This is a disaster! How will we ever control him?! We're doomed!
Need I remind you that you are the ponies who turned him back into stone like this in the first place?
I suppose we can just use the Elements of Harmony against him again if it gets out of hand.
Uh, w-w-we probably need a volunteer to run away from here right away to get them. I'll do it!
No need, Spike. I have them right here, and I've cast a spell so Discord can't take them and hide them again. Now where is Fluttershy? I believe she may know best how to begin reforming Discord.
Fluttershy? Really?
What's he goin' on about now?
Good news. Mr. Beaverton Beaverteeth has agreed to take his dam apart and move it.
Well, it's about time. My apple trees are so waterlogged, I can practically hear 'em gargle!
But he says first you'll have to apologize for calling him "a nuisance".
Apologize? He's lucky I didn't call him a varmint!
[gasps] Mr. Beaverton Beaverteeth! Such language!
Fine, fine. I apologize.
[sighs] Thanks, Fluttershy. Don't know what I would've done without you.
Glad I could help.
Hey, slackers! Double time it on over to Ponyville, would ya?! We're all waiting on you!
I realize that this is a tall order, but I wouldn't ask if I weren't confident you could get him to use magic obediently of his own free will.
And... you really think I'll know best how to do that?
I do. Now, I must return to Canterlot for Equestria's royal summit. You may release Discord when ready.
Okay, ponies, guess it's time to get started. Let's just hope this releasing spell works.
Or... let's not.
We'd best keep our elements on at all times 'til further notice.
Check!
What do you think you're doing?!
[gasps] Make that bunny cute again! Now!
Oh... [sniggers] He's adorable the way he is.
[blows raspberry] You know what else is adorable? You ponies truly believe that you can reform me, and that you're putting your faith in this one here to make it happen. Makes me wanna pinch your little horsey cheeks...
How'd you know about that?!
Being turned to stone doesn't keep me from hearing every word Celestia says. Although I admit it makes rolling my eyes a challenge.
Well, unless you want us to turn you back to stone, you'll zap those animals back the way they were, pronto!
Oh, you wouldn't dare turn me back to stone and risk disappointing your precious princess.
Try us, "Dip-cord"!
You think you can treat poor defenseless animals like that and get away with it?!
You go, Fluttershy!
You'd best watch your step, buster, or I'll give you... the Stare!
If it turns out we need to use our elements against you, I'm sure we can convince Princess Celestia it was for a good reason!
Oh, dear.
He may be horrible, but that doesn't mean we have to act the same way. We should at least try to be hospitable. [to Angel] You don't mind giving up your favorite spot on the couch, do you, Angel Bunny?
Oh, I'm sorry about Angel. Are you alright?
Oh, yes. Thank you, Fluttershy, for your concern. If only your pony friends could be as considerate...
Don't listen to him, Fluttershy! He's just trying to drive a wedge between us like he always does.
Now why in the world would I ever try to do a thing like that?
So we can't unite and use the Elements of Harmony against you, that's why!
I never thought of that...
You big liar!
Now, look who's a liar. Anyone can plainly see that I'm not big at all.
I can't watch...
We'll be outside.
You sure you're okay with this?
I know it's not gonna be easy, but Princess Celestia's counting on me. And... I think I actually know what to do.
You do?
I think the key is to befriend him. Being kind to him and letting him be my house guest is probably the best way to do that.
And you really think that'll work?
I think it's worth a try.
Okay, but if you need us, all you need to do is whisper "help", and we'll be back here with our elements. [to Discord] So watch that goat-legged step of yours, pal!
Wh-what?! Look at me! I'm practically reformed already.
She's really alright with him staying there?
That's what she said.
Personally, I think we should come up with a backup plan, in case this whole "befriending" business doesn't work out.
Rainbow Dash is right. This is Discord we are talking about, girls. It wouldn't be a bad idea to have another trick up our sleeves.
And I think I know just the trick.
Discord? Oh, there you are. Listen, Discord, I just want to make sure you know that if there's anything I can do to– uh, umm, are you eating... paper?
Well, um... I'm just heading out, so you just make yourself at home while I'm gone.
Buh-bye, have a nice time! Everything is fine here. Bye bye... Bye bye...
You like carrots, Angel? I'm playing your owner for a fool! [laughs] How d'ya like them carrots?
That's weird. The spell I had in mind isn't in here. Spike, where are the other books I asked you to pull?
Right here, Twilight.
I really want to have a reforming spell up and running pronto.
But what if he makes the Elements of Harmony disappear like he did last time?
Princess Celestia cast a spell protecting them, remember? Uh-oh.
What's wrong?
[eating] Are you sure this isn't overdoing it? You said to make myself at home while you were gone, but I wouldn't want to overstep my bounds.
Nngh... I did say that, so... if this makes you more comfortable... by all means, please feel free.
Oh. Well, it does, very much so. You're so very kind, my dear Fluttershy. I always knew that you were the understanding one, not like those nasty friends of yours.
[gasps] My friends aren't nasty!
Fluttershy! Fluttershy, can you hear me?
Goodness! I hear Twilight!
Fluttershy, what's going on? Are you okay?!
We're fine. Everything's going great. Isn't it, Angel?
We've come to get you away from Discord! He's just terrible and, from the looks of it, completely out of control!
Oh, but you're wrong! We're making great progress!
Seriously?!
I'm earning his trust by giving him a little space to be himself.
Hate to break it to ya, but he used that "space to be himself" to tear out all the reforming spells from the library!
That does explain the paper eating...
He ate them?! Ugggghhhh!
But we aren't gonna need a spell. He's already really considering being reformed! He said so.
And you believed him?
If I'm going to be his friend, I have to start by giving him the benefit of the doubt! Tell you what. Bring all the ponies over for a dinner party this evening, and I'll bet his manners will have really improved by then. I'll even get him to put the cottage back on the ground first.
[sighs] Alright. Dinner it is.
Ugh, I can't believe we're having a dinner party with Discord!
This evening is sure to be a disaster. Glad I didn't bother wearing my fanciest outfit.
Fluttershy thinks this is the way to reform Discord and asked us to give it a chance.
Oh, our pony guests! [upper class voice] We're so delighted that you've come. Please, do come in.
See what a beautiful job he did helping? Discord set the entire table himself. I'm so proud.
May I take your... [clears throat] hats, ladies?
Hang on to your elements, girls. It's gonna be a bumpy night.
As you all know, Princess Celestia hoped we'd help Discord use his magic for good instead of evil.
Pinkie Pie, care for some gravy?
You bet!
Allow me.
Oh, what a cute little gravy boat you are! Yes you are! Yes you are!
That's one creepy little gravy boat if you ask me.
Oh, come on now, Dashie. You're not even giving this a chance.
Hey! That's hot!
Whoops! [chuckles] I'm so sorry!
He did that on purpose!
Oh, well, I don't know about that. Mistakes happen. Oh, look, everypony, dancing candles!
I'm not falling for that! Discord's just trying to distract us from–
[grunts] Hey! Knock it off! I suppose that's another "mistake"?
No, I think you just made them mad.
There's something fishy going on.
Discord?
Well, it's hardly my fault if the soup tureen finds the term "something fishy" to be offensive.
Not the dress! Not the dress!
That tureen's only doin' what you're makin' it do!
Now let's not jump to any conclusions.
Fluttershy! Can't you see what he's doing? He's playing innocent with you so you'll never agree to use the Elements of Harmony against him!
Oh, well, that's a bit harsh, isn't it?
You see what I'm saying, right, Fluttershy? Fluttershy!
You know what I see? I see that Discord's far from perfect, but I also see none of you giving him a chance!
What's gotten into you?! Why do you keep cutting him so much slack?
Because that's what friends do.
We're friends?
Why, of course! I can't remember my house ever being this lively before you came along.
Oh... Well, I've... never really had a friend before.
Well, now you do!
Now is not a good time, Angel. We're having a dinner party.
Hold up! I-I think he's tryin' to tell us somethin'!
Apple!
Applejack!
Oh, oh, oh! Sweet Apple Acres?
Flooding at Sweet Apple Acres! And we all know who's behind that now, don't we?!
Who, me?
Oh, give it a rest! What do you think of your "friend" now, Fluttershy?
I've never seen the floodin' this bad! They've built dams 'round here before, but never like this! What's goin' on?
[gasps] Such language! [sighs] It's no use. They won't listen to a word I say!
You see Discord's behind all this, right?
Oh, of course I do! Do you all think I'm a silly, gullible fool?
I've just been trying to gain his friendship any way I can, so he'd come to trust and listen to me!
Hey there, Fluttershy, you want a turn? The water's great!
Time to see if it worked.
Fluttershy, oh, there you are. A sight for sore eyes.
As you can see, there's a big mess down here at Sweet Apple Acres.
Oh, yes. Awful business, that. Mm.
It is awful. This is Applejack's home, and it's being destroyed by innocent creatures who would never be acting this way if it weren't for your reckless behavior. You need to fix this.
Oh, yes, very well, I will fix it. I only ask one thing in return.
Yes?
I ask that you never use your Element of Harmony against me. As a sign of our friendship.
I will never use my Element of Harmony against you.
Discord! That's not fixing it! Why, I oughta...
Where are you going? What's wrong, pal?
Don't call me your pal!
Oh, pfft, come skating with me, and we'll let bygones be bygones.
Here you go, Fluttershy! Game on!
He fixes this or he goes back to being stone! Princess Celestia will understand!
I made a promise not to use my element against him, and I'm going to keep it.
[growls] Not. Your. Friend!
Who cares? I can do whatever I want, whenever I want. I'm Discord, the master of chaos! You think you can boss Discord around? You think I'm just going to turn all this back because you say so? Because if I don't, I'll lose the one friend I ever had? [pause] Oh. Oh. Well played, Fluttershy. Well played.
I like it better my way, but... I guess when you're friends, you can't always have things exactly your way all the time, eh?
Yes, Princess, I'm ready to use my magic for good instead of evil. [under his breath] Most of the time.
Congratulations on your success, ponies. I definitely sense a big change in Discord. [to Twilight] I'll leave the Elements of Harmony with you, Twilight. Just in case.
You were right when you said Fluttershy would be the one to find the way to reform Discord. By treating Discord as a friend, she got him to realize that friendship was actually important to him. And something that, once he had, he didn't want to lose.
Go on. Say it...
[groans] Alright. [quickly] Friendship is magic.
See? He can be a real sweetheart once you get to know him.
Who are you hooing at?
I know, they're delicious.
Now you see 'em, now you don't. [chewing] [belches] Mm! [singing] This is how you make a jewel cake: stir in some gems, and then you bake. [chewing] Mm-hmm! Gonna, eat, eat it up! Gonna– [gasps] What happened to all my jewels?! [drums claws] I had a bowl full of them here, and now I don't! Which means somebody took 'em!
Who? That's what I'm asking, who?! Who took my jewels?! Oh. I'm who. This cake was gonna be so good! Why? [thump] Why?! [gulps] Whyyyyyyyyy???!!!
[singing] I have no jewels... I have no cake... I'm a sad little dragon... With nothing to–
...is it?
Oh! Oh goodness, I-I hope I'm not interrupting anything.
Well... I do have this cake to not bake...
Oh... sorry, it's a bad time.
Uh, inside joke. Talk to me.
It's just that... Princess Cadance needs us to do a great job welcoming the Head of the Equestria Games when she visits the Crystal Empire tomorrow–
Oh, I know all about that. As if I wouldn't be any help at welcoming...
Oh, I don't know what was I thinking. Of course you might be upset for not being invited, and... here I am coming to ask you for a favor. You were probably going to say no anyway. All I had to offer you in exchange was one little jewel.
What was that?
[yelps] All I have is this jewel.
[slurp] That's a really big one. A really big, juicy, perfect-for-a-cake-topper jewel.
Does this mean you'll do it?
Yeah... Sure...
Oh, thank you, thank you! So while I'm gone, you'll take care of Angel, and tomorrow is Tuesday, which is his tail-fluffing day, and it's really important for him to look good.
Wait, what? You want me to take care of him?
Oh, well, yes. But if it's too much trouble, I can always see if there is somepony else.
Uhh... We already agreed on the whole jewel thing, so I'll just...
Thank you, thank you, thank you! Angel, aren't you just so excited?
See you tomorrow.
You know... She's not the only pony with a pet that might need some watching...
All I'm saying is, if Fluttershy thought that her beloved little friend shouldn't be left alone while you're busy in the Crystal Empire, then maybe that's just something to think about.
Tch! Tank's not some fuzzy little bunny. He can take care of himself.
He's a strong, fearless, and totally together pet.
Alright. You can watch him, but only because... uh... Tank's got a strict flying regimen, and-and someone needs to make sure that he doesn't slack off while I'm gone.
You know... the two of us are very diligent.
Okay, whatever.
Yes, yes, more importantly, as for Opal, she likes to eat every thirty six and a half minutes, you groom her with her silken brush, head to toe...
...Oh, and don't forget to pooch her pillow out in the middle, that's where she likes it. And the temperature in the room should always be exactly eighty one point four degrees. That's the only way she can get to sleep.
And, um... hmm... oh, good, so thanks for your help and good luck to you.
A-hem... I think the dragon was expecting a little something for his efforts.
Almost as beautiful as the pony who gave it to me...
Shouldn't you be critter-proofing the library or something? Tank has a tendency to–
Critter-proofing. Yeah, I'll get right on that. [chuckles] Three down, three to go.
What's that you said, Gummy? Uh-huh. Well, you're just gonna have to ask Pinkie Pie about that one.
Ask me, ask me!
Go ahead, ask her!
Of course you can have another cupcake! Mm? Mm-hm? Yeah? Why didn't you say so? I'll get you a bigger pond immediately.
I think what Gummy's trying to say is–
I think what Gummy's trying to say is that he'd like a little Spike time.
Who wouldn't?! Spike time is the best!
Alas, it doesn't come cheap.
All I'm saying is you might wanna think about a helmet. You only want to get hit in the head by a flying turtle... once.
A thousand plus carats of pure deliciousness...
Looks like you got a regular pet day care in here, Spike. You'll still be able to get some good play time with Winona like you said though, won't ya? She tends to get a little wild if she doesn't get her exercise.
Exercise. Sure, of course.
Whoa!
I don't remember seeing critters on the invite list.
That's 'cause we're leavin' them here with Spike. He's gonna do a little critter-sittin' for us.
Oh, really?
So sorry I'm late. Silly bunny had hidden his brush. Be sure you get plenty on his tail, or it won't get as poofy as he likes it.
No, no no no. I love you more. No, I love you more! I love you more!!!
Oh, I promise it'll be okay. I'll fluff your tail twice next week. Three times?
Oh, I know. It's a chilly eighty one point two in here. Spike, take care of this, would you please?
You got it! So, uhh... What are you thinking about that hooting little friend of yours? Suppose you want me to keep an eye on him too.
That would be nice. You sure you don't already have your hands full?
Nah, pshaw. I'll be fine. But, uh, just between you and me, I gotta give priority to the... paying customers.
[sigh] You absolutely sure you can do this?
Of course. Wouldn't have agreed to it if I couldn't. Piece of cake. Speaking of cake, I got a little something I need to attend to.
Yeah, like keeping an eye on a house full of critters.
[slurp] Uh, yeah, uh, that was totally what I was talking about. Relax. Go to your welcoming thing in the Crystal Empire. Spike's got it all under control.
Alright, sidekicks, front and center!
There are six of you, but there's only one right here in front of me... Gah! Two! And what I say goes!
Spike, the boss of you, that's who. One, two, three! Nngh, come on, number four!
Whoa! Guh...
One, two, three, four, five... Argh, who's missing?
Angel.
All I wanted were some jewels. Big, juicy, delicious jewels. Now what do I have? A missing rabbit and–
Awww, little fluffy Angel Bunny-kins! You're so cute! The natural weaves in his fluff are to die for!
Isn't Angel just the cutest thing you've ever seen?!
[to Angel] Look, you don't wanna be with me. I'd rather not chase you around all over the place when I could be enjoying some jewel cake. Watch me solve both of our problems. [to the Cutie Mark Crusaders] Y'know, I'm supposed to be watching him, but you all have just hit it off so well that maybe, maybe I could let you take care of him instead.
We would, but we've got some major Crusaders business planned for today!
Major. We're getting our skydiving cutie marks today!
Ha! Yeah!
Well, I suppose, if you've got other plans... It's just, you're so good with them. Like get-a-cutie-mark-for-bunny-sitting good?
A bunny-sittin' cutie mark...
That would be adorable!
He does seem to like us.
And we haven't exactly figured out how we're gonna pull off this whole skydivin' thing.
You know what? As hard as it's gonna be for me part with these little guys, I think you should probably just take all of them. If you ask me, nngh, the more critters you take care of, the more chances you have of getting some kind of critter-sitting cutie mark. Am I right or am I right?
Sure!
Yes!
But wait! How're we gonna take good care of them without treats for when they're good?
And we'll need beds for when they're tired!
And toys! They need toys!
It's an afternoon. They don't need all that stuff. They'll be fine.
We need to be able to buy them some things! One jewel might be able to cover it all.
Uh... what would I possibly be doing with jewels?
I happen to know for a fact that Applejack gave you a gem to watch Winona, which means...
Obviously, no one around here is getting a cutie mark for kindness toward a poor, hungry little dragon. Take it or leave it.
We'll take it.
[singing] Gonna put in some flour, and add a little sugar for my five de-li-cious jewels!
[muffled] But pink feathers would look so good with your eyes!
Meh... that bird could use a little color.
[muffled] Has anyone seen Tank's head? Where's his head?!
What have you done to the turtle?!
Ohh, I totally forgot he could do that. Heh.
Yeah, so, pretty sure critter-sittin' cutie marks are out.
And our critter-grooming cutie marks probably aren't going to appear anytime soon either.
[groans] Alright, load 'em up. And you can gimme back that jewel I gave you.
Sorry, we don't have it anymore.
What? Why not?!
How do you think we paid for the industrial-sized pet hair dryer?
[groans] Oh.
Zecora knows just what to do about all this bad mojo that's floating around you.
I'm thinking a cage and a great big lock might be next.
Zecora can take the bad away if you do just what I say.
Really?
But before I can do my duty, I am going to need some of your booty.
[sighs] Where are you going?
You think jewels are what you need, but there's no worse mojo than dragon greed.
Almost there...
[suspiciously] Mm-hm...
Just taking good care of everyone's animals. What am I gonna have to do to get this to go away? [sighs] And this is just between you and me, right? No other pony has to hear a word about it?
A word about what now?
This better be important.
All aboard!
Angel.
I can't have all of these animals on my train. Not without tickets and not without chaperones.
All I need is to get on for one minute, grab a bunny, and get off! Promise!
[laughs] Likely story. No chaperone, no train.
Skydiving cutie marks!
Is three ponies enough? [sighs] At least I have you two left, my delectable little treasures.
All aboard for the Crystal Empire!
Crystal Empire?!
I've always wanted to see the Crystal Empire!
I wish I were dressed for it, but still... [squealing] THE CRYSTAL EMPIRE!
We're not really going! We just needed to get on the train so I can get that rabbit! And when I do, we're off!
What?!
That's not fair!
There he is!
Next stop, the Crystal Empire!
No, no, no, no, no, no!
So it seems like the Crystal Empire would be really cold, but I've heard that it's not! It's as warm as can be!
Do you think the walls are crystal? [gasps] Maybe even see-through! Can you imagine see-through walls?
Take it! Just take it!
So beautiful!
Well, enjoy it while you can, 'cause we're not getting out of this car until we're back in Ponyville!
There is no way, no how, we're comin' all the way to the Crystal Empire without lookin' around!
Nopony's gonna get past this dragon!
Don't make me use this!
Whoa, just whoa.
Ah! I'm in crystal heaven!
Shhh! They're right there! There's the bunny! Please, please, pretty please, don't go down there! I'll fluff your tail! I'll perm, highlight, and blow it out if you'll just stop!
What do you want?! Name it, and it's yours! [pants] [groans] [kisses] Hyah!
Oh my goodness.
All aboard!
Hah! You're coming with me!
We made it!
Without seeing the palace!
I think this car's empty.
They're coming this way! Everybody down!
There has to be a better solution!
Shh! Oh, don't sit down, don't sit down!
Whooeee! My dogs are barkin'.
Did y'all hear that? They really are!
Huh, bummer Spike had to miss out on all this. He woulda' had fun here.
I'm sure he's having a great time watching all the critters back at home.
Think he's still got a handle on things?
If he's staying calm and collected, I bet he's doing a terrific job as a leader.
Go ahead, bunny. Do your worst. I deserve it. I ignored you, tried to pawn you off on someone else, I didn't take these silly things out, or fluff this like I was supposed to. I wasn't really thinking about you at all. Any of you. Just wanted the jewels. I hope you'll all forgive me someday.
You will? [stomach growls] Oh great. I'm gonna be the one who gives us away.
You all hear that?
I can't wait to scratch the belly on Winona. Oh, I miss her.
Hello! Thought we'd meet you at the station!
So we could hear all about the Crystal Empire, and find out if you brought us one of the crystal snow globes that they sell at the train station!
How did you know about the snow globes?
Um... lucky guess?
I've gotta hand it to you, Spike. You did a really good job of taking care of the animals.
Oh, Spike, Angel looks perfect! You did such a good job fluffing his tail.
Yeah, well... we're like this now.
You know who.
So what are you thinking? Bake 'em into a jewel pie? Ooh, six-layer gem cake sounds pretty good!
Yeah, it does. [slurps] It really really does. [pause] Whyyyyyyyyy???!!!
You absolutely sure you can do this?
Of course. Wouldn't have agreed to it if I couldn't. Piece of cake. Speaking of cake, I got a little something I need to attend to.
Yeah, like keeping an eye on a house full of critters.
[slurp] Uh, yeah, uh, that was totally what I was talking about. Relax. Go to your welcoming thing in the Crystal Empire. Spike's got it all under control.
Hurry up, Twilight! We can't miss our train!
Tickets.
Oh, this is gonna be a real treat. Princess Cadance said she'd never seen the Crystal Ponies so excited.
Duh! Of course they're excited. They're up for the Equestria Games. It's only the biggest sporting event in all of Equestria.
Didn't Cloudsdale host the Equestria Games one year?
No. Cloudsdale should have hosted the games one year. I'll never forget when we got the bad news.
The Equestria Games go to... the city of Fillydelphia.
NOOOOOOOOOOO!
These Crystal Ponies lost a thousand years to an evil king's curse. They've had enough bad news. No way we're letting them experience the pain of losing out on these games.
Exactly. Princess Cadance is counting on us to do our part to convince the Games Inspector to choose the Crystal Empire. And we are not gonna let her down. Are we?
NOOOOOOOOOOO! What? I was just answering Twilight's question.
Four, three, two, one! The Crystal Empire, that's the one!
[through megaphone] Okay, everypony, great job! Sounds like we're ready.
One more time from the top.
Oh, please! I think that was perfect.
[sighs] But we've run this, like, twelve times already. I think we've got it.
Cadance said the Games Inspector really puts folks through the wringer on her visits. There's no margin for error here. And this time we need to practice the steps.
On a train car?
You heard the pony! On your hooves!
Crystal Empire, ladies! Watch your step leaving the train!
[sighs] Probably should've watched our step while we were still on it, too.
Wow! The Crystal Empire looks crystallier than ever!
They must have everypony in the Empire out sprucing it up!
This must be why we were asked to handle the welcome committee routine.
And it's probably also because we'll be awesome at it.
Princess Cadance was right. These ponies do look pretty darn excited.
Yup, I remember that feeling. But not as much as I remember the crushing wave of disappointment that came when things didn't work out. That right there. That is the face I do not want to see.
We're here.
[giggles] There are my girls.
Sunshine, sunshine, ladybugs awake!
Oh, my. This is spectacular. Please, everypony, stand back! I need air!
Go ahead and try whatever you like. It's all complimentary for the welcome committee.
Ooh-hoo-hoo-hoo!
That over there is a crystal mud bath, which relaxes your body and rejuvenates your coat. Now, I realize it can be kind of strange to climb into mud, but if you'll just give it a chance, I'm sure–
Woo-hoo!
Pinkie, no!
[laughing] Ahh, so relaxing!
Pinkie Pie! Honestly!
Go ahead, have a good time while I get my ceremonial headdress done.
Ceremonial... headdress?
When meeting with important guests, it was tradition for rulers of the Crystal Empire to weave crystals into their manes in a very specific way. The Games Inspector is known for doing her homework. She'll certainly be expecting my look to reflect the importance of her visit.
Princess, if I may have a word... I-I have two pieces of news for you. First, your mane stylist has the flu and won't be able to make it for fear of you catching it, too.
Oh. Well... I hope she's better soon. Do any of the other stylists here know how to do the traditional royal ceremonial headdress?
Um... well... uh... (No.)
Oh. [breaths in] [breaths out] Just a... small detail.
Whoa, whoa, whoa! You're trying to land the Equestria Games here. There is no such thing as a small detail!
Rainbow Dash!
I suppose... I could give it a shot.
Oh, Rarity, you would do that for me?
Way to step it up, Rare!
Fortunately, I have all the precise instructions right here.
Oh, my!
You sure you're up to this?
Working on the hair of royalty on such an auspicious occasion is the opportunity of a lifetime! I will give it everything I've got!
See? No worries!
Besides, the Games Inspector isn't expected for several hours. I'll have plenty of time to figure out exactly how to... do... this...
Oh, Rarity, that's wonderful! [to Golden Hooves] You said you had a second bit of news?
Yes, quite. The Games Inspector, Ms. Harshwhinny, will be arriving on the... next train.
What!? You couldn't have told her that news first!? That's fifteen minutes from now!
Oh, my goodness!
[breathes in] [breathes out] How long before Cadance is ready?
Hmmmm... I'm sure to find some shortcuts.
Can you have her back at the castle when we're done?
Done.
Okay, we'll be fine. Everypony, just be on the look out for the pony with the flower print luggage.
Easy peasy, pudding in the freezy!
We bring the Games Inspector back to the castle, put on our big welcome committee how-do-you-do and then...
Put the pudding out to thaw before you eat it or you'll crack a tooth?
I'll just ignore that. We need to remember that the Games Inspector arriving early is probably part of a plan to psych us out.
What do you mean?
You said it yourself. She's got a rep for trying to catch hosts off-guard, just to see if we can handle the kind of massive pressure that comes with hosting the Equestria Games.
Oh, no... We're gonna blow it...
Not if we always stay one step ahead and don't fall for any of her mind games. Anything she throws at us, we just need to remember she's testing us and roll with it.
Excuse me, ma'am?
Ms. Yes, what is it?
Oh, no!
Be cool. [to Ms. Peachbottom] Well, I know you're not expecting us, but we're here to personally welcome you to the Crystal Empire.
Ms. The whole lot of you came to do that?
Uh, well, um... yes!
Ms. Well, darn tootin', ain't that the cat's meow! Y'all didn't need to do that. Why, I hardly expected anything like this.
Whew! The Princess wouldn't have had it any other way.
Ms. The Princess? Princess Cadance?
None other!
Ms. Well, tie me up and throw me down! This just keeps gettin' better and better!
Can we help you with your bags?
Ms. Don't mind if ya do!
Ooh, I love flower print! Sorry.
Our first stop is the castle, where we got a big razzamatazzy welcome planned for you!
Ms. The castle? Are you kidding?! Hot-diggety-dawg!
See that? We just gotta roll with it until the Princess gets there and we'll be just fine.
So, uh... how's it going so far?
Oh, I'm so sorry... It's just... oh so complicated. [laughs nervously] I can fix it!
Fix what?!
Well, I-I was looking for shortcuts and I thought step twelve was optional! But it's not!
Ms. My golly, the crystal castle! [gasps] Why, I've seen pictures, but I never expected to see it with my very own eyes! [gulps] From the inside...
Oh, my gosh, she's so nice!
You're letting her lull you into a false sense of confidence. Watch that. It's all part of the game.
Ms. Oh, my, I'm so excited.
Please, have a seat, won't you?
Ms. Mind if I take a quick run outside first? It was an awfully long train ride and my legs could use a stretch.
Oh, well... we were just about to start.
Ms. Oh! Never you mind. You go on ahead. I'm listening.
She was probably testing us to see if we could remain in control of a complex situation. Looks like we passed. Bump–
–cha!
We'd like to thank you for this opportunity to introduce you to this wonderful kingdom!
Ms. Oh, why, the pleasure is all mine.
And since we're not even from here ourselves, who better than us to let you know just how welcoming this place can be!
Two, four, six, eight! Name a place that's really great! One, two, three, four! Keeps you coming back for more! Two, seven, nine, three! The place that we all wanna be! Four, three, two, one! The Crystal Empire, that's the one!
Ms. Ooh, I tell ya! I have traveled far and wide, but I have never, ever been welcomed anyplace in the fashion that y'all have done here today.
That's fantastic! Princess Cadance would be so glad to hear that!
Ms. Honestly, I'm surprised she knows anything about me at all!
Of course she does! She's been looking forward to your visit for weeks!
Ms. Oh, goody! Is she here?
Uh...
[hushed] Where the heck is she anyway? Wasn't she supposed to be here by now?
Or, if you like, we could give you a tour of the castle! That way you could be learning and stretching all at the same time!
Ms. Ooh, a tour of the crystal castle... I'd love that a whole heap.
[hushed] Dash! We've hardly ever even been here before!
[hushed] It's just another test! We gotta roll with it, remember?
Oooh! Lemme give the tour! I'lldoit, I'lldoit, letmeletmeletme!
[breathes in] [breathes out] Fine. You all start giving her the tour, and I'll go see what's keeping Cadance.
Ms. Oof!
Hello there!
Ms. Hello yourself. First hello of the day–
[gasps] W-What are you doing here?
We finished the welcome committee song and we just wanted to introduce Ms. Harshwhinny to–
No, no! Princess Cadance isn't ready. Something's gone terribly wrong!
I need to speak to the Princess.
You can't! You mustn't! She's in the middle of a delicate conditioning rinse that must go perfectly if there's to be any hope for her hair!
Come on, how bad can it be?
Imagine her mane turned into a porcupine.
Ew.
Please! I will bring her back from the brink of tragedy, but you have got to buy me some time! There's no other way!
So, you see this here? This, um, this is, um... a big, round room. It's known for its roundness and bigness. And did I mention that it's round?
Ms. I think they call it a rotunda? A small, confining, rotunda...
[blows raspberry] Whatever. Round is round, am I right?
[hushed] Easy, Pinkie, let's play this safe! We got her in a good mood, so let's not do anything to ruin that.
Ms. You know... I love this sort of architecture. I-I-I detect a neo-Gothic inspiration in the design, yes?
[sighs] And not a moment too soon. Where's Cadance? Please tell me she's right behind you.
There's a bit of a problem with her headdress. How's it going here?
Ms. I, uh, hate to be a bother, but the legs are cramping up on me with all this standing around...
Huh?
She's getting bored, and we have to buy Rarity some more time. [breathes in] [breathes out] I'll see if Shining Armor can come help. Can't one of you other ponies take over in the meantime?
I got this. Wanna stretch your legs, huh? Well, whatever you need, I'm sure we can provide. Let's just make our way to the castle's gymnasium. Our tour will now be headed... this way. And we're walking, and we're walking...
Twily!
Hello there! Shining Armor, you've gotta help me.
[blows whistle] Everything okay?
I left the other ponies behind giving the Games Inspector the worst castle tour ever.
Come on, gang! Are we gonna gallop, or are we gonna trot!? [to Twilight] Castle tour, huh? I'm pretty sure I can give you a hoof with that. [to athletes] Let's move, move, move! [to Twilight] Everything's gonna be okay.
I know, I'm not worried. I'm not worried... it worked!
Ms. [gasping] I'm outside! [laughing] Feels so good to stretch the old legs!
Uh, what the–
Turns out the crystal castle doesn't have a gymnasium.
Watch it!
Ms. Woo-hoo!
Make her stop!
Wait, that's the Games Inspector! Let her do her thing.
Ms. Good. Oh, these hooves! I'm outside!
Why would she do that?
I have no idea, but that's why she's who's in charge of choosing who gets the Games, and we're not.
Ms. [muffled] Oh! Oh, get me outside for a run!
Look out!
Yeah, okay, we need to stop her.
Where's she going in such a hurry?
Closer... closer... I think we've got her... Yaaaaaaah!
Ms. Hoo-eee! Oh, that felt good! Nothing like a great run to shake the cobwebs off these old bones.
Ms. Hey there, speedy. Ah, these wide open spaces y'all got here remind me of home. This is great!
Ms. Oh, good golly, yes. I just love to travel and see new places. Such a beautiful spot you got here, too!
Why... thank you so much! I'm Shining Armor.
Ms. [gasps] The Prince!
What's going on?
From the looks of it, just locking up the games for the Crystal Empire is all. Ain't no thing.
Ms. My, oh, my... I never met a Prince before...
[chuckles] I'm surprised. I'd think in your line of work you'd meet princes all the time.
You... are Ms. Harshwhinny, the Equestria Games Inspector, aren't you?
Ms. Inspector what-now?
We got the wrong pony?!
NOOOOOOOOOOO! I mean, YEEEEEEESSSSSSSS!
Oh, please still be here... Oh please, oh please, oh please...
There's got to be another pony with flower print luggage around here somewhere.
Except that there isn't!
We've gotta find her before Cadance finds out what a mess we've made of things.
Okay, here's what we do. We split the Empire up into five sectors.
Each of us search a sector.
Well... except for the spa. What's the point of checking there? That's where Cadance is. If Ms. Harshwhinny is there, well, then, game over, right?
Ms. Every city and empire wants to host the Equestria Games. So, I have to go through all the big phony-baloney song and dance, though of course, I'm never getting the real inside scoop.
Ms. Oh, golly, I've been having a swell time since I got here. I'm actually thinking of extendin' my stay.
Ms. And what exactly has made your visit so special?
Ms. Oohohohoooh, gosh, where to start?
Oh, there she is! We're in luck! I don't think either of them knows yet that the other one's here!
Wonderful news, look! Princess Cadance, better than new!
Ms. Princess Cadance? So, this is where you've been! I will have you know this is by far the worst welcome I've had in all my years!
I-I can't believe it... What was wrong with your welcome?
Ms. There wasn't one!
What is going on?
Princess, we gave our welcome to the wrong pony, left the right one waiting at the station, and completely ruined everything.
When I was a little filly, I wanted so badly for Cloudsdale to win the Equestria Games. But it didn't happen. So I thought I could make up for that disappointment by helping the Crystal Empire win the chance to host the Games. But it looks like I ruined your chances instead.
Ms. Not so fast, speedy.
Ms. I just finished hearing about how this pony was just treated to the warmest, finest, most fabulous reception she ever had.
Ms. Darn tootin'!
Ms. Courtesy of these fine ponies right here. Which, in my expert opinion, amounts to the first ever unvarnished, unrehearsed, and unbiased appraisal of a potential host of the Equestria Games. Which can only mean one thing...
[through microphone] The next host of the Equestria Games is... the Crystal Empire!
We did it!
[through microphone] Congratulations, Crystal Ponies!
[sighs] You know, it feels good to help others get something you always wanted but never had. Almost as good as getting it yourself. Almost.
We'll still be able to come back here and watch the games when they're played.
You're right. That'll rock!
Oh, my goodness.
All aboard!
Huh, bummer Spike had to miss out on all this. He woulda' had fun here.
I'm sure he's having a great time watching all the critters back at home.
Think he's still got a handle on things?
[breathes out] If he's staying calm and collected, I bet he's doing a terrific job as a leader.
You all hear that?
Morning in Ponyville shimmers Morning in Ponyville shines And I know for absolute certain That everything is certainly fine
There's the Mayor en route to her office There's the sofa clerk selling some quills
Morning, kid!
My Ponyville is so gentle and still Can things ever go wrong? I don't think that they will
Morning in Ponyville shimmers Morning in Ponyville shines And I know for absolute certain That everything is certainly—
Rainbow Dash, that's not funny!
Terribly sorry, darling. I'm afraid I'm... I'm not good with the thundery ones.
[gasp] Something tells me everything is not going to be fine.
What are you doing? What happened to your cutie mark?
Whatever do you mean, Twilight? I'm simply doing what I've done since the day it first appeared. Does my sky look fabulous or what?
Too last season?
Where is Rainbow Dash? Why isn't she handling this?
[yawns] I still don't know what you had to wake me up for. I love sleeping in the rain.
Hey, guys.
Rainbow Dash! Why is Rarity doing your job?
And what in Equestria is going on in... here?
nan
These animals don't listen, no, not one little bit They run around out of control and throw their hissy fits [cat hissing] It's up to me to stop them, 'cause plainly you can see It's got to be my destiny, and it's what my cutie mark is telling me
[blows balloon] I try to keep them laughing, put a smile upon their face But no matter what I try, it seems a bit of a disgrace [blows party horn] [laughter] I have to entertain them, it's there for all to see It's got to be my destiny, and it's what my cutie mark is telling me
I don't care much for pickin' fruit and plowin' fields ain't such a hoot No matter what I try, I cannot fix this busted water chute! I've got so many chores to do, it's no fun being me But it has to be my destiny, 'cause it's what my cutie mark is telling me
Lookie here at what I made, I think that it's a dress I know it doesn't look like much, I'm under some distress Could y'all give me a hand here and help me fix this mess? My destiny is not pretty, but it's what my cutie mark is tellin' me
I'm in love with weather patterns, but the others have concerns For I just gave them frostbite over top of their sunburns I have to keep on trying, for everyone can see
It's got to be
It's got to be
My destiny
My destiny
[Rarity, Rainbow Dash, and Fluttershy] And it's what my cutie mark
It's what my cutie mark
[Rarity, Rainbow Dash, Fluttershy, Pinkie Pie, Applejack] Yes, it's what my cutie mark is telling me!
This is bad. This is very, very bad.
What's going on? Why is this happening?!
Last night when you were taking one of your seven-hour bubble baths, I got a special delivery from the princess.
Dear Twilight Sparkle,
The spell contained on the last page of this book is Star Swirl the Bearded's secret unfinished masterpiece. [gasps] Ooh! He was never able to get it right, and thus abandoned it. I believe you are the only pony who can understand and rewrite it. Princess Celestia
From one to another, another to one. A mark of one's destiny singled out alone, fulfilled. That doesn't make any sense. It doesn't even rhyme!
I cast the spell so I could find out what it was, but nothing seemed to happen. But now I know something did happen. The spell has changed the Elements of Harmony! That must be why their cutie marks are all wrong!
So just cast a counter-spell to switch them back.
Oh. There is no counter-spell!
Why don't you just use that memory spell you used to fix everypony when Discord was here?
It's not their memories, Spike. It's their true selves that have been altered!
Zecora's cure for the cutie pox?
That won't work either...
Well [sighs], maybe it won't be so bad. Maybe our friends will grow to like their new lives.
No, Spike. They're not who they are meant to be anymore. Their destinies are now changed, and it's all my fault.
nan
I have to find a way To make this all okay I can't believe this small mistake Could've caused so much heartache
Oh why, oh why?
Losing promise I don't know what to do Seeking answers I fear I won't get through to you
Oh why, oh why?
Oh, Spike, what have I done?
Aw, come on, Twilight, you'll figure out a way to fix this. These are your friends.
You're right, Spike. And they mean more to me than anything. My friends...
Twilight? Are you alright?
I've got it! I know what to do!
You do?
I may not be able to remind them of who they are, but I can show them what they mean to each other. They'll find the part of themselves that's been lost so they can help the friend they care about so much! Come on, Spike!
Fluttershy, wait!
Oh... Hey, Twilight...
Where are you going?
I'm moving back to Cloudsdale. I don't know what's wrong, but I can't seem to make anypony laugh.
Before you go, I was wondering if you might be willing to help Rainbow Dash. She's really struggling with her animals.
But... I don't really know anything about animals...
But you do know something about Rainbow Dash.
I... know that she's a true friend, and I'll do anything I can to help her.
[muffled] Whoa!
Rainbow Dash!
I'm in here! Help! I'm trapped!
Hurry, Twilight! Can't you do some sort of spell to get her out?
No. Fluttershy, you're the only one who can help! Rainbow Dash needs you!
Um... Hello? Little... woodland creatures? I know that you're all very upset and feel like giving Rainbow Dash a hard time, but we'd all really appreciate it if you'd calm down and, um, maybe... rest for a bit? Oh! Uh... look! Here's some nice, juicy leaves for you to munch on. And some crunchy, munchy acorns too. Uh, wouldn't you like to take a break and have a little snack?
Aww, look at that. I guess you were all just cranky because you were hungry. Oh, you are very welcome, little friends.
Goodness, it's like I can understand them! I... I feel strange, like... like this is what I'm meant to do, like this is who I am! My destiny! Wha... what happened?
Fluttershy, look! Your cutie mark!
nan
It worked! It worked! Oh, I'm so happy you're back to normal! Now we need your help!
A true, true friend helps a friend in need A friend will be there to help them see
A true, true friend helps a friend in need To see the light that shines from a true, true friend
Um, hello? Friend trapped inside, remember?
Rarity needs your help She's trying hard, doing what she can
Would you try, just give it a chance You might find that you'll start to understand
A true, true friend helps a friend in need A friend will be there to help you see A true, true friend helps a friend in need To see the light that shines from a true, true friend
Uh, what just happened?
There's no time to explain, but we need your help. Applejack's trying to make dresses!
Say no more!
Applejack needs your help She's trying hard, doing what she can Would you try, just give it a chance You might find that you'll start to understand
[Twilight, Fluttershy, and Rainbow Dash] A true, true friend helps a friend in need A friend will be there to help them see A true, true friend helps a friend in need To see the light that shines from a true, true friend
[gasps] Oh my, what a terrible dream I had. Or, maybe I'm still having it.
Rarity, Pinkie Pie is about to lose the apple farm. We need Applejack's help!
Lose the apple farm? Well we can't let that happen, now can we?
Pinkie Pie is in trouble We need to get there by her side We can try to do what we can now For together we can be her guide
[Twilight, Fluttershy, Rainbow Dash, and Rarity] A true, true friend helps a friend in need A friend will be there to help them see A true, true friend helps a friend in need To see the light that shines from a true, true friend
Yee-haw! Now that's more like it! What's next?
The townspeople are furious. We need the old Pinkie Pie back.
I'm on it. I know just the thing.
The townspeople need you They've been sad for a while They march around, face a-frown And never seem to smile And if you feel like helpin' We'd appreciate a lot If you'd get up there and spread some cheer From here to Canterlot
Come on ponies, I wanna see you SMILE!
PINKIE!
[Main cast and crowd] A true, true friend helps a friend in need A friend will be there to help them see A true, true friend helps a friend in need To see the light! (To see the light!) That shines! (That shines!) From a true, true friend!
[echoing] A mark of one's destiny, singled out alone, fulfilled. [normal] [gasps] Wait a second, that's it! I understand now! I know how to fix the spell!
From all of us together, together we're friends. With the marks of our destinies made one, there is magic without end!
[gasps] What happened?
[echoing] Hello? Where am I? What is this place?
[echoing] Congratulations, Twilight. I knew you could do it.
[echoing] Princess... I don't understand. What did I do?
You did something today that's never been done before. Something even a great unicorn like Star Swirl the Bearded was not able to do, because he did not understand friendship like you do. The lessons you've learned here in Ponyville have taught you well. You have proven that you're ready, Twilight.
Ready? Ready for what?
nan
You've come such a long, long way And I've watched you from that very first day To see how you might grow To see what you might do To see what you've been through And all the ways you've made me proud of you
It's time now for a new change to come You've grown up and your new life has begun To go where you will go To see what you will see To find what you will be For it's time for you to fulfill your destiny
Twilight? Is that you?
Wha... I-I've never seen anything like it!
Why, you've become an Alicorn. I didn't even know that was possible.
Wow... You look just like a princess!
That's because she is a princess.
Huh?
A... A princess?
Since you've come to Ponyville, you've displayed the charity, compassion, devotion, integrity, optimism, and of course, the leadership of a true princess.
But... does this mean I won't be your student anymore?
Not in the same way as before. I'll still be here to help and guide you, but we're all your students now, too. You are an inspiration to us all, Twilight.
But... what do I do now? Is there a book about being a princess I should read?
[giggles] There will be time for all of that later.
We are gathered here today in celebration of a momentous occasion. My most faithful student, Twilight Sparkle, has done many extraordinary things since she's lived in Ponyville. She even helped reunite me with my sister, Princess Luna. But today, Twilight Sparkle did something extraordinary. She created new magic, proving without a doubt that she is ready to be crowned Equestria's newest princess. Fillies and gentlecolts, may I present for the very first time, Princess Twilight Sparkle!
nan
The Princess Twilight cometh Behold, behold A Princess here before us Behold, behold, behold
Behold, behold (behold, behold) The Princess Twilight cometh Behold, behold (behold, behold) The Princess is The Princess is here!
Say something, Princess.
Oh. Um... [clears throat] A little while ago, my teacher and mentor Princess Celestia sent me to live in Ponyville. She sent me to study friendship, which is something I didn't really care much about. But now, on a day like today, I can honestly say I wouldn't be standing here if it weren't for the friendships I've made with all of you. Each one of you taught me something about friendship, and for that, I will always be grateful. Today, I consider myself the luckiest pony in Equestria. Thank you, friends. Thank you, everypony!
Twilight! I'm so proud of you!
Are you crying?
Of course not. It's... it's liquid pride. Totally different thing.
Way to go, Princess!
Best coronation day ever!
We love you, Twilight.
I love you too, girls!
nan
Life in Equestria shimmers Life in Equestria shines And I know for absolute certain
That everything (that everything) Yes, everything (yes, everything) Yes, everything is certainly fine It’s fine
Yes! Everything’s going to be just fine!
You gotta really flap 'em hard.
[grunts] Whoa!
Uh, maybe not quite that hard.
Whoa! Oof!
Lookin' good up there, Princess Twilight.
Applejack, you know you don't have to call me that.
Why do you protest so? You've already given up wearing your crown all the time. The least you can do is embrace your new title.
If other ponies want to address me that way, I suppose it's fine, but... not my friends. It just doesn't feel right. [sigh] And neither does all this flying business. The Summer Sun Celebration is only two days away, and I'm never gonna be ready to perform my part.
Not if you spend all your time down here, you won't! Now get up there and show everypony the big finish!
Wow! That was a big finish!
You look amazing, darling. They've really captured your regality.
I suppose.
I don't know if it's everypony's dream.
Most of my dreams are about frosting! [slurp] Ohohohoho...
We'd better get going. We don't want to miss our train.
Fluttershy's right. Don't know about y'all, but I've still got bushels to do to get ready. The official celebration may be here in Canterlot, but hoo-wee, has the Mayor put us in charge of one heck of a party back home. Aw, don't look like that, sugarcube. You get to be right there with the other Princesses when Celestia raises the sun.
And I'm honored. Really, I am. It's just that the Summer Sun Celebration is what first brought us all together. It just doesn't feel right not getting to spend such a special day with my Ponyville friends.
It doesn't feel right to us either, darling. If the Mayor wasn't so desperate for our assistance, we'd most certainly stay here in Canterlot. And of course we do understand that your royal duties must come first.
The Summer Sun Celebration may have brought us together, but it's something much bigger that'll always keep us connected. Exhibit A: The six of us are united by the Elements of Harmony. No amount of royal duties is gonna change that. Right, everypony?
Right, Pinkie Pie?
You should take that as a yes.
We're gonna write you and give you so many details, it'll be like you're in Ponyville with us! Right, girls?
Applejack, Fluttershy, Cross my heart and hope to fly, stick a cupcake in my eye.
And you will be with us right after the Celebration. We already have an appointment on the books to discuss the royal upgrades to your loft decor.
All aboard for Ponyville!
Whee!
[exhales] I can't help it, Spike. They've only been gone a minute, and I already feel like I'm missing something.
For the Princess.
[reading] Dear Twilight, you aren't missing anything. Your friend, Pinkie Pie.
[in the distance] That's me!
But I am. I just know it.
Check, check, check, check, and... check! Huh, whaddaya know? We're way ahead of schedule! I credit your extremely competent assistant.
So do I.
The Celebration isn't until the day after tomorrow. We could still fit in a quick trip to Ponyville and be back in plenty of time to finish off these last few things before the main event!
[sighs] That would be nice, Spike, but what if something else came up while we were gone? What if we were delayed getting back and I wasn't able to finish everything on that list? What if we lost the list on the way to Ponyville and then couldn't remember which things we'd done and which things we hadn't done, and then spent so much time trying to figure out what we hadn't done and what we had done, and we ruined the entire Celebration by not doing the one really important thing that we were supposed to do?!
Uh... so that's a 'no' then?
These are the first royal duties Princess Celestia has given me. I can't risk letting her down!
And I'm sure you won't.
Your highness!
No need for that now, Princess Twilight.
Sorry.
[giggles] No need to apologize.
Sorry!
I must admit that it is wonderful to actually be looking forward to the Summer Sun Celebration.
What do you mean?
For my subjects, it has always been a celebration of my defeat of Nightmare Moon. But for me... [sighs] It was just a terrible reminder that I'd had to banish my own sister.
I guess I never really thought about it that way.
But now it has become a wonderful reminder of her transformation back into Princess Luna, and our happy reunion. I am so pleased that you will be playing a role in the festivities. I know it must have been difficult to see your friends return to Ponyville without you.
Maybe a little.
You may no longer be my student, Princess Twilight, but I hope you know that I will always be here if you need me. Just as I hope that you will always be there when I need you.
[clears throat] I think this guy needs you?
Uh, a message for Princess Twilight.
A letter from Ponyville, I presume?
Never mind. It's not important. Spike, where were we?
About to call it a night?
We should probably go over the checklist one more time.
I knew you were gonna say that...
I'll leave you to it.
Huh?! Spike?
[snores] Check-check-check-check-check-check...
Spike!
Ungh... What time is it?
It's the middle of the night! But it could be morning. That's just it! I can't tell!
Whoa. That is weird.
Come on, Spike, we have to find out what's going on.
"Primrose": What do you think it means?!
Princess Twilight will know!
I'm-I'm sure it's just... Well, there's certainly a logical ex–
Royal guard # Your Highness, you must come with us.
Royal guard # It's Princess Luna and Princess Celestia.
Royal guard # They're gone!
But I don't understand! Where are they?
Royal guard # We don't know. It seems that Princess Celestia and Princess Luna have simply... vanished.
Vanished?!
Royal guard # This is why we have come to you.
Royal guard # We await your command.
My command?!
Royal guard # We're officers of the Royal Guard. We take our orders from royalty. With Princess Luna and Princess Celestia gone, and Princess Cadance overseeing the Crystal Empire now, that means we take our orders from you.
Royal guard # Princess Twilight, there's no time to waste. We need to know what you want us to do.
Way to take charge, Twilight.
Royal guard # Your highness! News from Ponyville! The Everfree Forest appears to be... well... invading!
Excuse me... Oh, pardon me... Are you all right? My goodness, what is it that has caused you all such distress?
Whatever it is, I'm sure it's nothing you need to really worry about. [screams] Oh, no, you were right. You should be worried! Very, very worried!
...Nope.
[straining] Dagnabbit, we ain't never seen this kind of trouble with weeds before. Now that I think about it, I've never seen these kinds of weeds at all! Have y'all?
Nope.
Where the heck are these things comin' from? And what in tarnation is goin' on with the sky?!
Oh, no, you don't! This is Ponyville territory, and we aren't due for rain until after the Summer Sun Celebration. You Everfree clouds need to just head on back to where you belong! Whoa! [yelps] Gonna make me do this the hard way, huh? [yelping] Hey!
[humming] Hmm. Something strange about the sky.
What in the name of calming chamomile is going on?!
Opalescence, darling, I'm so sorry! I promise I am not doing this on purpose!
It wasn't me, I swear!
Ooh, Sweetie Belle! If this is some sort of prank you and your little Crusader friends are pulling, I find very little humor in it!
Rarity, you have to help me! I think something's wrong with my horn!
Where are we going?!
The Everfree Forest is... 'invading'. Whatever is going on, I'm sure we're going to need our friends and the Elements of Harmony to stop it! I just hope we haven't missed the train...
[gasps] [short on breath] Twilight? There is another way for us to get to Ponyville, remember?
There is?
Huah! You can fly!
Oh. Right!
Whoa!
Something very strange is going on, and- [gasps] I for one would appreciate an explanation!
All I know is the sky's split in two, and these clouds moving in sure aren't from around here.
Neither are all these crazy plants! They're comin' from the Everfree Forest! And try as we might, us Earth ponies can't do anythin' to get rid of 'em! Don't suppose you know any magic that might stop 'em from spreadin'?
Alas, this whole raging forest situation seems to have left my horn on the fritz!
We have to figure out something! I don't know how much more of this Ponyville can take! [yelps] I don't know how much more I can take!
The forest is expandin', y'all, and judgin' by how fast it's movin', it doesn't seem content just takin' over Ponyville... I reckon before long, it'll cover half of Equestria!
I'm starting to wish... we'd taken the train!
Almost there! Come on, Spike, we need to get the Elements of Harmony and find the others!
Incoming!
Whoa! Aah!
Oh, thank goodness!
Oh, I hope you know we wouldn't normally go through your books without permission...
Sweet ground! [kissing noises] Sweet, sweet, wonderful ground!
Okay, I get it! I need to work on my flying!
I dunno if you've noticed, but the Everfree Forest is just a teeny-tiny bit out of control.
Guess it turned out you were missin' something here in Ponyville after all.
But perhaps you already know what's causing all of this calamity. Has Princess Celestia sent you to dispel it posthaste?
Not exactly. You see, Princess Celestia is, well... she and Princess Luna are both...
They're missing!
I don't know who has taken them, but I've got a hunch we're going to need the Elements of Harmony to get them back.
Oh, yeah, just like old times.
A-boo-yah!
I told ya we'd always be connected by the Elements. [sighs] Now we just gotta figure out who to aim these bad boys at so we can get Celestia and Luna back and keep the rest of Equestria from becoming plant food! Any ideas?
Hmm...
I haven't found squat in any of the books I've been looking through! Oopsies! Missed a spot!
Half day, half night... strange weather patterns... out of control plants. I think I'm starting to get a pretty good idea of who we're up against.
[singing] Winter Wrap Up, Winter Wrap-ooh! [laughs] Now, Twilight, you know Princess Celestia said that you were to give me a heads up before you summon me with that little spell she gave you. In case you haven't noticed, I was in the middle of a particularly invigorating shower.
E-nough! Release Princess Celestia and Princess Luna, and stop the Everfree Forest from invading!
Why, [chuckles] whatever are you talking about?
Don't you play dumb with us, Discord! We know you're the one behind all of this!
Don't get me wrong. I absolutely love what you've done with the place, but I couldn't possibly take responsibility. I'm reformed, don't you remember?
Yeah, right! This has got your cloven hoofprints all over it!
I'll have you know that I have only one cloven hoof. Such accusations. And here I thought we were friends.
Drop the act, buster! We're onto you!
Ladies, ladies, I'm innocent. Would I lie to you?
Yes!
Um, maybe?
Well then, it seems we've reached an impasse. I'm telling the truth, but you think I'm lying. What do friends like us do in a situation like this, Princess Twilight? Congrats, by the way, on the promotion. You totally deserve it.
I say we blast him back to stone!
Works for me!
Hear, hear!
Hey! We can't do that! What if he really is telling the truth?
Well, finally! Somepony willing to give me the benefit of the doubt. The rest of you could learn a lot about friendship from my dear friend Shutterfly here.
Um, it's Fluttershy.
Oh, right, whatever.
If you're not the one responsible, then help us figure out who is!
I suppose I could, but after all the hoof pointing and besmirching of my good name, I just don't know if I'm up to it.
Rrrgh!
Why don't you ask your zebra friend if she knows anything?
Zecora!
From my home, I have had to flee! The forest has grown too wild, even for me!
Any idea why all this is happenin'?
I'm afraid it is a mystery to me as well, but I may have something that, if combined with a spell... I do not dare to use it myself, the results would be tragic. It only responds to Alicorn magic. Princess Twilight, you can turn the potion from purple to white. After a sip, you may see why the sky is day and night.
Oooh!
[drinking] Doesn't seem to be worki-
Where am I?
Not... another step!
Princess Luna! I don't understand. Where are we? Why did you and Celestia disappear?
Did you really expect me to sit idly by while they all basked in your precious light?
Precious light?
There can only be one princess in Equestria! And that princess... will be me!
It's Princess Luna and Princess Celestia.
They're missing!
The Everfree Forest is... invading. I think I'm starting to get a pretty good idea of who we're up against.
I'm reformed. Don't you remember? Why don't you ask your zebra friend?
You can turn the potion from purple to white. You may see why the sky is day and night.
Princess Luna!
There can only be one princess in Equestria! And that princess will be me!
Luna! Think of how long you were banished to the moon! You'll give us no choice but to send you back there if you don't stop!
Luna, I will not fight you! You must lower the moon! It is your duty!
Luna? I am... Nightmare Moon! I have but one royal duty now: to destroy you! And where do you think you're going?
Celestia!
No... Why would Luna do this? Why now? [crying] You're all right. You're all right! Princess Celestia?
Oh, dear sister. I am sorry, but you have given me no choice but to use these.
Are those the Elements of Harmony? But that's how they looked in... the past. This is the night you banished her.
Nooooooo!
Why are you all looking at me like that?
It's just... you were mumblin' to yourself...
Ooh! And don't forget the uncontrollable sobbing!
We were really worried about you.
I for one found it delightful. Sort of a one-pony theater piece, if you will. You should really consider taking it on the road.
Did you find out whose rump we need to kick and where we can find them?
I saw something from a long time ago. But it didn't explain what's happening now.
Perhaps farther back still are the answers you seek. Another sip of the potion will give you a peek.
You sure about this?
Oh, I do hope she breaks into a song this time!
Oh, this is so much fun. How about a game of 'Pin the Tail on the Pony'?
[gasp] Play time is over for you, Discord.
Oh, I doubt that. [munching] Hungry? Suit yourselves. Oh! What have you got there?
The Elements of Harmony.
With them, we shall defeat you.
This must be when they turned Discord into stone.
[laughing] You should see yourselves right now. The expressions on your face. So intense. So sure of yourselves. [laughing] Hilarious!
[gasp] The Tree of Harmony.
The Tree of Harmony? My cutie mark.
Are you sure?
We have managed to discover the only means by which we can defeat Discord and free the citizens of Equestria. Even without these elements, the Tree of Harmony will possess a powerful magic. As long as that magic remains, it will continue to control and contain all that grows here.
So what did you find out?
I still don't know what's happened to Princess Luna and Princess Celestia, but I think I know why the Everfree Forest is acting this way. Something's happened to the Tree of Harmony.
The tree of what now?
It's where Princess Celestia and Princess Luna found the Elements. I think it's in danger.
Well, all right then! Let's go save a... tree. Uh... where is it exactly?
I think it's in... there.
Ooh-hoo! I'm going to need more popcorn!
Seems like only yesterday we were heading into these woods to find the Elements of Harmony.
Seems like only yesterday I was foolish enough to think I should go after them on my own. I don't know what we're going to face in there. But whatever it is, I know we need to face it together.
[gasps] A cragadile! Run for your lives!
That was close.
[sighs] A little too close, if you ask me. You sure you're all right?
I'm fine. I just can't seem to get these new wings to do what I want them to do when I want them to do it.
Aw, you'll figure it out eventually.
"Eventually" isn't soon enough.
You have been having an awful lot of trouble with those things. And, well, who knows what else is gonna to come after us? You know, maybe it wouldn't be such a bad idea for Twilight to go back to Ponyville and let us look for the Tree of Harmony without her.
What? Why?
For starters, you just about got eaten by a cragadilly.
We all did. He wasn't after just me.
Sure, but... well, the rest of us aren't princesses.
What's that got to do with anything?
Princess Celestia and Princess Luna are gone. If something happened to you, I-I just don't think Equestria can risk losing another princess.
Applejack does make a valid point. Even if we manage to save the Tree of Harmony, it won't necessarily mean Princess Celestia and Princess Luna will return. Equestria will need somepony to lead in their absence.
But the Tree of Harmony! I'm the only one who has seen it and knows what it looks like.
Huge tree, cutie marks on the trunk, probably being attacked by something hideously awful? Yeah, I'm pretty sure we'll know it when we see it.
All of you feel this way? Feel like I shouldn't be here?
It is probably for the best.
Help! Help!
Discord!
You're welcome! Hmph. No luck finding your tree?
We ran into some trouble. And my friends decided it would be best if I returned to Ponyville while they continue the search. Equestria will need me if Princess Celestia and Princess Luna don't return.
I'm just surprised that you agreed to their plan. I never thought you'd be the kind of pony who would think she was better than everypony else.
I don't think I'm better than anypony!
I never should have agreed to come back here.
Come on, Twilight. Discord may be reformed, but he's not that reformed. He's just trying to get under your skin.
Well, it's working!
Anypony else starting to think this is a lost cause? We're almost at Celestia and Luna's old castle. Maybe whatever Twilight saw when she took that crazy potion wasn't real. Maybe there is no Tree of Harmony. Maybe–
Maybe it's right down there.
[gasp] It can't be!
How are we supposed to get to it?
Whoa! Oof! Ugh! Take the stairs, silly!
Are we there yet?
I don't know where we are. We're lost. I never should have left my friends.
We can't just give up. Maybe if I get up there, I'll be able to spot 'em. Well, what do you know? Twilight?
[gasp] I think it's dying!
Nice try. Heh- Whoa! Oof!
Valiant efforts on both your parts, but the tree remains in jeopardy.
And I suppose you've got a better idea? That's what I thought.
I know who would know what to do. But we sent her home.
It was your idea, Applejack!
We all agreed it was the best thing, Rainbow Dash! We were tryin' to protect her.
Oof! Ow! Ugh!
Twilight! Trouble! Help!
Listen here, you rabid rhododendrons! You mess with one of us, you mess with all of us!
Up here!
Yoo-hoo! Come and get me!
Don't forget about me!
Ta-da!
I sure am glad you came looking for us.
Not as glad as I am that you found me.
The truth of it is, Twilight, we're simply lost without you.
Yeah. Equestria may need its princess...
... But we need our friend.
[voice over] Even without these elements, the Tree of Harmony will possess a powerful magic. As long as that magic remains, it will continue to control and contain all that grows here.
I know how we can save the tree. We have to give it the Elements of Harmony.
Whoa, whoa, whoa, heh. How are we supposed to protect Equestria?
How are we meant to rein Discord in if we can't use the Elements to turn him back to stone?
Twilight... The Elements of Harmony... They're what keep us connected no matter what.
You're right about one thing, Applejack. The Elements of Harmony did bring us together. But it isn't the Elements that will keep us connected. It's our friendship. And it's more important and more powerful than any magic. My new role in Equestria may mean I have to take on new responsibilities, and our friendships may be tested, but it will never, ever be broken. There's no time to lose. Everypony ready?
[thud] Oh, poo.
We know how difficult it must have been for you to give up the Elements. It took great courage to relinquish them.
What's inside it? How am I supposed to open it?
Six locks, six keys.
I do not know where they are. But I do know that it is a mystery you will not be solving alone.
Bravo, ladies, bravo! How ever did you save the day this time? Blast the beastie with your magic necklaces, I presume? Where are those little trinkets of yours? You know, the ones you use to send me back to my extremely uncomfortable stone prison?
[sigh] Gone.
Gone? Gone?
But our friendship remains. And if you want to remain friends, you'll stop thinking whatever it is you're thinking and help us clean up.
Fine. But I don't do windows.
One thing I don't get. Why did all this happen now?
I have no idea. Those seeds I planted should have sprouted up ages ago.
What did you say?!
Oh, why should I try to explain it when you can see for yourself?
Play time is over for you, Discord!
Oh, I doubt that. [munching] Hungry? [voice over] Well, obviously things didn't go according to my original plan. My plunderseeds should have stolen the magic from the Tree of Harmony and captured Princess Celestia and Princess Luna thousands of moons ago. Alas, it seems the tree had enough magic to keep the seeds from growing up big and strong. Until now, that is.
You realize this is information we could have used hours ago?!
And rob you of a valuable lesson about being princess? What kind of friend do you think I am?
Citizens of Equestria, it is no longer with a heavy heart but with great joy that I raise the summer sun. For this celebration now represents not the defeat of Nightmare Moon, but the return of my sister, Princess Luna.
What's wrong, Twilight?
Ugh, I've gone through every book in Ponyville, Spike, and there isn't a single mention of the mysterious chest that came from the Tree of Harmony, nor anything about keys to unlock it! But something tells me that opening it is pretty important. I hope Princess Celestia has some ideas. If the library in Canterlot doesn't have anything, I-I don't know where else to look!
[reading] My dearest Twilight, while it would be perfectly lovely to have you in Canterlot once more, I have another option in mind much closer to Ponyville.
[voice over] As you know, the ancient castle that I once shared with Princess Luna lies mostly in ruins, deep in the Everfree Forest. But if you look carefully, you may find a book that could prove helpful to your research, hidden somewhere in what's left of the castle library.
[happy gasp] Wow! Look at all these ancient books! It's a veritable goldmine of information! I can't believe it! Woo-hoo!
Whoa, whoa-whoa! Oof! [yelp] Uh, heh-heh. So, uh, Twilight. Uh, ready to head home?
Are you kidding? This place is perfect!
I'm not gonna move. You move.
Uh-uh. There is no way I'm movin'.
This is the most daring dare anypony ever dared dare another pony to dare!
Huh?
It's exciting!
Uh, whatcha'll doing?
Rainbow Dash and Applejack are competing for the title of "Most Daring Pony"! This is the final test: the Bee Stare! Last pony to blink wins!
... I'm gonna need my bees back.
But then we'll never find out who the Most Daring Pony is!
Well, what do we do now?
Don't worry, ladies, I've been keeping excellent score all day! [quietly] Hmm, move the decimal, carry the 2, and... [aloud] Congratulations! You're tied!
Tied?
You can't be tied for the Most Daring Pony!
Okay, no problem. We just have to come up with another daring dare.
Right. I think I might have an idea of what we can do.
Um, Rarity? Don't you think it's a little late in the day to be walking through the forest? It is... star-spider season, after all. Though, I'm sure you have a very good reason.
Simply the most important reason I've ever had in my entire life!
Oh, well then I'm happy to help. What is it?
I've heard rumors that the Castle of the Two Sisters is filled with the most gorgeous of ancient tapestries in all of pony history! It pains me to think of those magnificent creations rotting away in those old ruins, totally unappreciated.
I see...
I require your help in borrowing one or two to bring back to the boutique where I can restore them. Maybe I'll even use the patterns as the inspiration for a new line!
That does sound... very important.
Um, are you sure you need those tapestries?
But, of course. Although, I must admit these ruins are a fright. Just look at all the dirt everywhere! Ugh...
[gasp] Angel!
Angel! Oh, you really shouldn't have run off like that. Ancient ruins are filled with all sorts of things that can hurt you! You could stub your toe, or, or trip on a loose stone... You have to be careful!
I don't think I'll need all these candles, Twilight. I was really only scared for a second.
Oh, these aren't for you, Spike. We're gonna be studying late into the night, and we're gonna need all the light we can get.
Oh, great.
Well, here we are!
Uh, what's so daring about this place? This is where we got the Elements of Harmony.
When I was just a filly, Granny Smith told me of an ancient legend. When Nightmare Moon was banished, not every last bit of her dark magic went with her. Granny used to say, when night falls on the castle, that magic takes the form of... the Pony of Shadows!
You mean, like a ghost?
[spookily] Nopony knows!
Ugh.
[excited gasp] This one is perfect!
Well, it certainly could use some restoration.
Be a dear, fly up there and lift it off that hook?
[calling out] Maybe from below?
I don't see what's so daring about an old legend. Plus, I don't believe in ghosts.
You might wanna rethink your position on that.
You saw that, right?
Run!
Ow... I think I hurt my wing.
Oh, my dear, I am so sorry! That tapestry is far too heavy. We'll just have to find a smaller one.
Oh, of course.
Where, pray tell, did you disappear to?
What do you mean?
While you were struggling under that fabric, the entire wall spun around! You must have activated a secret door.
Oh, I'm sorry.
I suppose these ruins are chock full of them.
Really?
Absolutely. We must use the utmost care as we—
[panting] Okay, so, maybe the legend is true!
Well, that's why I brought you here! I guess only the most daring pony of all could stay in this castle all night without being scared off.
Scared? I'm not scared!
Well, m-me neither!
Then it's settled! Whoever stays in the castle the longest is the Most Daring Pony.
Deal.
But it's gonna take a lot more than some shadowy ghost pony to get me to leave.
Me too! Humph!
Find anything, Spike?
Uh, nope. Nothing yet.
Aaah!
Angel? What are you doing here?
[gasp] Whoa! [reading] The Journal of the Two Sisters. [gasp] Maybe this is the book Princess Celestia was talking about!
I sure hope you're not afraid of the dark, Applejack!
I can't say that I am! But even if I was, I'd be at least fifty percent less scared of it than you, Rainbow Dash.
I dunno how all that math works because I'm not scared at all!
Me neither!
Huh?
W-what's the matter? It's just a dark hallway full of... disembodied pony legs.
Yeah. Nothin'... creepy about that.
I'm starting to wonder if maybe this castle doesn't want my expertise!
Oh dear. Angel? Rarity, have you seen him?
I'm not sure he made the trip down with us, dear.
Oh, goodness! We have to find him. An ancient castle is no place for a bunny. He could get hit by falling debris, or the floor could give out under him! Oh! He could be trapped in a dark place with no way out!
[flatly] I can only imagine how that might feel. Hmm...
Applejack, if you're scared, you can just admit it. You don't need to put your hoof around me.
Uh, I'm over here.
Rarity! What is it?
I felt something... alive!
[gasp] Angel!
But we can't leave now, not with Angel lost somewhere in this dangerous old castle! He could be trapped under a crumbling statue, or stuck high in a tower without food or water or any friends at all!
Spike, you've got to hear this. [reading] I love to duck behind the paintings, and though the Hall of Hooves still gives her a bit of a fright, the trap door slide is Luna's favorite.
"Hall of Hooves"?
[reading] Soon the Organ to the Outside will be finished. I can hardly wait.
What's the "Organ to the Outside"?
[happily] I have no idea!
You hear that?
You mean, the creepy sound of a haunted pipe organ?
Uh... maybe?
[worried] I don't know what you're talking about!
Uh, Twilight? Did you hear something?
Oh, Spike. Quit being such a scaredy-dragon. This castle is thousands of years old, and half of it was destroyed by Nightmare Moon. Of course it makes strange sounds. It's practically falling apart!
Oh... kay.
[calling] Angel! Angel!
I'm sure we'll find him.
Angel?
Did you find Angel? Is he okay?
[gasp] They are perfect! No castle in its right mind could possibly object to my restoring such exquisite works of art.
Oh! They're lovely, Rarity, but... I have to keep looking for Angel. Oh, I hope he doesn't think I've given up on him.
I'm right behind you! Won't... [grunts] be... [grunts] a moment!
Do you think there's a single room in this castle that isn't filled with terrifying things?
Whoa! [nervous laughter] It's just old pony armor. What's the big deal?
Yeah! It's not like it's gonna come to life or anything. Right?
Huh?!
Whoa-oa!
[groans, spits] Now, you look here, castle! You are very old and very scary! But your wall art is in an atrocious state!
And there is nothing you can do to keep me from my sacred task of restoration!
Uh... Applejack? If you went back to Ponyville, that means I win, right?
[calling] Rarity! I know hiding isn't really your sense of humor, but please let this be a joke!
[screams] [echoing] Rainbow? Hello? I guess if I don't find you, I win by default, right?
[grunts] [grumbles] Of all the castles in Equestria, this is by far the most ungrateful!
Oof!
[whispered yelling] Angel! Rarity! Oh... I hope you two are together.
Haunted statues, creepy armor... Come on, castle! Is that all you got?
[whimpering] [gasp] Angel?
AAANGEEEEEL!!!
What in the world is that?!
Oh, you know. Probably just more strange sounds of this old castle falling apart!
No one likes sarcasm, Spike.
What got into them?
[grunting] It's okay, Angel! You're okay! You're okay!
Yaaaaah! Shadows everywhere!
[sobbing] Aaangeeeeel!
Alright, everypony, stop!
Twilight?
Must... save... Ange—! ...Oh.
Fluttershy? What are you doing here?
She's with me...
[gasps] Thank you.
Have you all spent the whole night running around, scaring each other?
Well, that depends.
On what?
On whether or not you're the Pony of Shadows.
What's... the Pony of Shadows?
Oh, that's just an old ponies' tale.
Then who's playing... that?
We're going to find out.
[whispered] The Pony of Shadows!
Hey, you guys! Did you know I can totally play the organ? Because I didn't!
Pinkie?!
Check it out!
You're the Pony of Shadows?
[continues playing light melody] The pony of what?
See? What'd I tell ya?
I thought you went to ring the school bell all week!
Oh, yeah! I only had to ring it for, like, five minutes! They said that was good enough! Eh, can't imagine why...
So then, I decided to throw a "finish ringing the school bell" party! But I didn't have any bluebells, and you can't throw a "finish ringing the school bell" party without bluebells, so I went to Everfree Forest to pick some, but it started to get so chilly.
I had to wrap myself up in the tarp I was gonna use to gather flowers, and then I saw Fluttershy and Rarity. But they went into the castle before I could invite them to my party. Luckily, I followed them inside so I could help you all with your party!
What party is that?
Duh!
I swear, this is going right back where I found it just as soon as I've returned it to its former glory.
Now don't go running off again! Oh, I can't believe I was so frightened. Guess I let my imagination get the best of me.
I think we all did.
I always let my imagination run away from me! Then it comes back... with cake!
Well, it's good to know that whenever your imagination is getting away from you, a good friend can help you rein it in. And even though I didn't find anything out about the mysterious chest, I'm glad I was here to help all of you.
You certainly did that, Twilight.
Yeah! Why weren't you scared?
Reading Celestia's diary made it hard to be afraid, because I knew what it was like when she and Luna lived here. Knowing something about the past made it easier to deal with my problems in the present, even the scary ones.
I've just thought of a great idea! Why don't we keep a journal, just like the royal pony sisters?
All of us?
Sure! That way we can learn from each other! And maybe some day, other ponies will read it and learn something, too!
What a splendid idea!
I know what my first entry will be! "Dear Diary, I'm glad Granny Smith's legend wasn't true."
Me too!
Me three! Because that means you two are still tied for Most Daring Pony!
Heh, Shadow Ponies... How ridiculous is that?
Four more months, four more months, four more months! I bet you're excited, huh?
Oh, my. I, uh, I could be excited. I don't really know. I wasn't really think—
Come on, you gotta be excited!
Oh, well, I guess maybe I'm a little kinda sort of excited.
I thought so!
Yeah... So, um, why am I excited?
Because the next Daring Do book is coming out exactly four months from today! That's how exciting it is! So what amazing, incredible, awesome adventure do you think Daring Do will have in her next book, huh?
[voice over] Will she at long last stalk the Fortress of Talacon? Only to be forced to contend with its dreaded and impenetrable arrow defense? And if so, could her skill, quick wits, and courage possibly carry the day? Or will her next adventure bring her face to face with the vast and horrible Ahuizotl himself?!
Would she cower, turn tail and run? Or would she fly at him, full bore, knowing full well against all odds that the greatest challenge she ever faced was still surely no match for—
Ahuizotl [with Fluttershy's voice]: [gasps] Look out!
Oh, I'm not so sure she's gonna last another four months...
Three months and twenty six days, three months and twenty six days, three months and twenty six days! Heya, Twilight! Aren't you excited that—
So glad you've finally made it!
What's everypony doing here?
So what holiday would today be?
National Random Holiday Party Day! Woo-hoo!
I've never heard of it either. [sips] But the punch is quite tasty.
How come nopony bothered to invite me?
I came to invite you personally, but it seems you were a speck too busy reading the last Daring Do book for the twelfth time.
Yeah, well, in three months and twenty six more days, I'll be able to read the next one.
Oh, haven't you heard? The release of the next book got pushed another two months.
[spit-take] Two more months?! I've been waiting so long already! I don't think I can take another two months! I'll never make it!
Yeah. I can vouch for that...
Did they give a reason?
The publisher just said author A.K. Yearling won't be able to finish the book for another two months. Cupcakes?
[growls] How could you possibly know that before me? I'm the series' biggest fan!
I'm just as big a fan as you! In fact, I'm the one who first introduced you to the books, remember?
Oh. Right.
A.K. Yearling just might be my favorite author. I know everything about her. Where she grew up, where she studied literature, where she wrote the first Daring Do book...
Where she lives?
Uh... no, though I could probably find out somehow. Why?
Don't you get it? The new book is obviously delayed because she needs help dealing with whatever everyday nonsense is distracting her from spending her every living breathing second writing! So I– I mean, fans like me, can get to read the new book ASAP! Think about it! We could help her with her laundry, buy her groceries, cooking her meals, whatever! Now, who wouldn't appreciate that?
Hmm, I don't know... What she probably wants most of all is respect for her privacy.
She can always just say no.
Mmh... I suppose you're right...
Of course I am. So... how's about getting that address?
You see what I mean? Why would she live in this remote part of Equestria except to keep folks from intruding on her privacy? We should respec—
I think I spotted the house! We're super close! This way!
Wait! Oh no. What happened?
Apparently somepony has intruded on her privacy pretty hard already...
Hoo-wee, somepony really trashed this place.
Hmm... Maybe... or maybe A.K. Yearling's just a terrible, horrible, unbelievable slob!
I hope A.K. Yearling's alright!
Oh no! What if something terrible happened to her?
I know! There might be no more books! Uh... But, of course, I'd be worried about her, too. Heh.
A.K. What are you all doing here?
We didn't do this! We swear!
A.K. What have you done to my house?
We didn't do this, Ms. Yearling— whoa!
We're awfully glad to see you're alright.
A.K. [sighs] It's safe.
Great! Maybe now would be a good time for me to ask her how we can help move the new book along a little faster. Chop chop!
Rainbow Dash, a minute please! A.K. Yearling has made it pretty clear that she wants to be left alone. We need to respect her wishes!
You should tell that to those guys.
A.K. Yearling is Daring Do!
A.K. Yearling and Daring Do are one and the same! My mind is officially blown!
Aw, come on, I knew it all along.
Amazing!
Incredible!
Wow! So much action! Whee!
Daring Do!
Dr. Many thanks, Daring Do. As you've probably surmised, our earlier search for this treasure was... unsuccessful. So kind of you to find it for us.
[grunting] Give it back, Caballeron!
Dr. That's Doctor Caballeron to you.
[hushed] He's from book four: Daring Do and the Razor of Dreams. He wanted to partner with Daring Do on her adventures.
I know, but she refused! I can't believe it! The real Daring Do and the real Caballeron!
So let me guess: Ahuizotl has put you up to this? You're stealing the ring to give to him so his hold on the Fortress of Talacon will be good for eight centuries as foretold by prophecy!
Dr. Close, but... no. I'm going to sell this to him, make a bundle, and retire from archaeology in splendor.
[grunting] Caballeron, you fool! You're dooming the valley to eight centuries of unrelenting heat!
Dr. To market, henchponies!
Uh... should we go in and help her, maybe?
Oh, right.
[gasps] Are you okay?
I got this.
Um, she was just trying to help, Ms. Do.
Daring Do doesn't need help. She handles her business herself.
We've gotta go help!
You heard her! She says she works alone!
How can we just stand by and do nothing? You know what's at stake here! Ahuizotl has sought control of the Tenochtitlan Basin since book three!
True, but in book four, she defeated Ahuizotl and secured control of the Amulet of Atonement, dispelling the dark magic of the Ketztwctl Empress, and thus protecting the basin with the Radiant Shield of Razdon!
But the Radiant Shield of Razdon is vulnerable to the dark enchantment of the Rings of Scorchero!
But are you forgetting that the Rings were scattered to the four corners of Tenochtitlan, thus rendering the dark enchantment powerless?
Only if you assume that the Rings have yet to be retrieved, and the ring Caballeron just stole isn't the last to completely restore the dark tower and its cruel hold on Tenochtitlan! Did you ever think of that?!
You gotta admit, Rainbow Dash makes a pretty good point.
We gotta help Daring Do retrieve the ring for safekeeping before it's too late!
[sighs] Okay, but sounds to me like we're in way, way, way over our heads. We're going to need a carefully thought out plan...
I'm coming, Daring Do!
That's not a plan!
Come on, come on, come on... Bingo! Here I come, Daring Do! To join an adventure with the greatest, bravest, coolest, most incredible hero I could ever– [whimpers] Okay, maybe I just need a sec... Just another adventure. No big deal. [smack] Get a grip! I got this. Though, doing it alongside Daring Do... Wow! Maybe I could get my picture taken with her, or an autograph– [smack] There you go again. She's just a pony like any other pony. A pony who stops entire armies of bad guys with nothing more than her bare hooves, and an attitude, and—! [smack] Ow... That's starting to hurt.
Yow! Stop!
Oh, it's just you.
Wait, wait, wait! Let me help you! I promise I could be a huge, huge help if you just give me a chance.
I. Work. Alone.
But why won't you let me team up with you just this once?!
My work always involves secrets. And since you never know who you can trust, it's best never to trust anypony.
But just because you can't trust some, doesn't mean nopony can be trusted!
Look, I don't have time to argue-
Neither do I. Let's go!
[sighs] [under her breath] Can't believe I'm even talking to her...
Looks like they decided to have an early dinner before making their way back down the hill to the marketplace in town.
Oh, I see. You're gonna ambush them like in book four at the Horavian caves! Or maybe, that neat trick you did in book three, where you swoop in and knock three guys down with one swing! Or maybe- [hushed] Okay. I'll be quiet now. Just watching very quietly, heh. Shh. So, what kind of ambush are you gonna use then?
Wow!
[gravely voice] I have been led to believe you have in your possession an item of significant importance that might be... for sale.
Dr. Oh, uh, well... I did have another buyer lined up, but he's not here, so... sounds like we have a deal.
[roars] Caballeron!
Ahuizotl!
The ring!
Be cool, Rainbow Dash, be cool... she's got this!
The ring, Daring Do! Give it to me!
Now, Ahuizotl, you know I love you, but I can't give you the ring 'til I've properly proposed.
Bring it!
Come on, Daring Do, come on...
Daring Do! I've got your hat! You want me to toss it? Daring Do! Daring Do!
Don't worry, Daring Do! I'll come help you! Whoa! Ow.
Don't bother! I'd say you've already helped plenty.
What have I done?
[gasps] Thank goodness you're alright!
Quick, where does it hurt?
In here. Daring Do and the ring have been captured by the dreaded Ahuizotl, and it's all my fault.
Dash, I'm sure whatever you did was an honest mistake.
Whatever. Let's just go home.
We can't go back now! Looks a mite like she needs our help more than ever!
Trying to help is how I got in this mess in the first place. You were right, Twilight. We should've stayed out of this.
Look, there is more going on here than meets the eye. In every Daring Do book, there always is! We can't turn our backs on her!
She doesn't want my help, Twilight.
Perhaps. But she might need it anyway.
No. My hero's way better off without me.
This don't sound like you.
Where's the Rainbow Dash who would help anypony at the drop of a hat?
Or pith helmet, as the case may be.
She's here where she's got no business being. She should be at home.
It's fine to look up to Daring Do, but you've put her so high up on a pedestal, you can't even see your own worth anymore! She's in the fortress, and we're here, and we wouldn't be who we are if we didn't go in after her! And neither would you! So, are you with us, or not?
[laughs] Oh, Daring Do, I will so miss your amusing laughter-jokes. Now, I must leave to commence the ring-placing ceremony to unleash eight hundred years of unrelenting, sweltering heat!
Gotcha! [grunts] You can flap too, y'know!
I was just about to save myself, y'know.
Of course. I just thought you might need this.
Have I mentioned yet that I work alone?
Have I mentioned yet that you're lucky I don't?
Drop the ring, Ahui... whatever your name is!
Hmph, place the ring, quickly! Get it!
Come with me! Help me get all these rings off!
[panting] If we can remove the giant ring at the bottom, the whole fortress will collapse!
W-Was this your plan all along?
I had to find a way to get into the fortress.
You did it on purpose?! But– but I thought—
I didn't count on how heavy this ring would be, though... Guess having a little help can be handy sometimes.
Stop her!
[straining noises] You can flap too, y'know!
[straining noises] Ponies! Run! This place is goin' down!
Daring Do! I will have my revenge!
Could never have done this without you, Rainbow Dash. I've got a book to finish!
Just had the coolest adventure with the coolest pony ever. Came this close to blowing it because I got so wrapped up in how awesome she was, I almost forgot about how awesome I was. Good thing I didn't, 'cause it gave me a chance to show her how important it is to put your trust in somepony else.
Package from A.K. Yearling.
Sweet! The new book a week before anypony else gets it! [inhales] Ohmygoshohmygoshohmygoshohmygosh!
Today, we have two special guests with a very special announcement! Everypony, welcome the head of the Equestria Games, Ms. Harshwhinny!
Ms. Thank you. Now, I'm sure you all know about the Equestria Games, where ponies from all over the land compete for glory in various athletic pursuits. Well, now you littlest ones will have the chance to compete for a weighty responsibility of your very own.
[distant] Oh, come on! Tell 'em the fun part!
That's right! All you gotta do is show Ms. Harshwhinny the coolest, most spectacular, most rocking routine and you're going to the Games! So who's going to be the lucky ponies?!
It's gotta be me!
Maybe it's me!
Maybe it's us!
Maybe it's us!
Hey! It could happen!
So, the winning team gets to carry the Ponyville flag at the Equestria Games! Oh, you are gonna love this!
Ms. Ms. Dash, will you please curb your over-enthusiastic outbursts? Now then, let me be clear on the rules. You ponies will form teams. Each team will create their own flag carrying routine. Everypony will be judged on grace, style and originality. There's a most complicated scoring system, which I will elaborate upon now. Firstly--
Aw, get to the nitty-gritty later. Tell 'em the important stuff! Like who's the coach! [blows whistle] That's right! Me! And you know why I'm qualified to coach you? Guess who carried the Cloudsdale flag in the Games when she was a little filly? Me! I'll never forget it –- I burst into the stadium, spreading my wings, the flag flapping in the breeze. I did tricks with that flag the likes of which nopony saw before and nopony's seen since!
Ms. Professionalism, Ms. Dash. I must insist. If you want to keep your job as coach of these ponies, you must maintain a professional attitude and keep your emotions in check! Am I making myself absolutely, one hundred percent crystal clear?
Yes, Ms. Harshwhinny. Y'know, "professionalism" is my middle name. Rainbow Professionalism Dash.
Ms. Hmph! Well, in three days time, Ms. Dash will accompany anypony competing to the Crystal Empire, where you will demonstrate your routines for me and the other judges, who will judge you very professionally.
Ahem. Yes. Quite, quite correct. In the meantime, get ready to train, and train hard, because I know this opening ceremony is the single most important thing that will ever happen in your young lives! But, I know you're up for the challenge. And so am I! Wooho-- Ahem... Meet me after school tomorrow at 1500 hours. Sharp. And show me your flag carrying skills. I am outta here. Professionally. See how professionally?
Ms. Ugh. Ponies, the most important thing is this: Your routine needs to show what your town means to you. So, do Ponyville proud. Work hard, be bold, wow me. That is all!
So what do you say we come up with the perfect routine and win this thing?
I'd say that's rootin'-tootin' terrific!
But there's one problem! I bet everypony in class is planning to compete!
Listen. Somepony in our class is gonna carry that flag, so it might as well be us! Crusaders, are you in or are you in? 'Cause I'm in!
Me too!
Me three!
Alright, the winning routine needs to show what's important about Ponyville, right?
Right!
So... what's special about Ponyville? It's... It's... I got it! It's a place where different kinds of ponies live together as friends!
Earth ponies like me!
Unicorns like me!
And Pegasi like me! So somehow we got to figure out a way to show that in our act.
We're gonna need a plan.
And a lot of hard work!
And a whole bunch of practice! But take it from me; we may just be little ponies, but we have hearts as strong as horses!
[Apple Bloom, Scootaloo, and Sweetie Belle] We're the toughest little ponies in town Got the moves, got the mojo, no harder working ponies around We are a trio, work as a team We'll be the first ponies out on the flag-waving scene
We get going when the going gets tough We know our very best is just never enough We're kinda short, but so what? We don't get defeated We could take a little break, but we don't need it
We've got hearts as strong as horses We've got hearts as strong as horses We've got hearts as strong as horses We've got hea-a-a-arts, hearts strong as horses
When we put our minds together, we can achieve We're the Cutie Mark Crusaders, and you should believe We've got determination to represent the nation For the win
We've got hearts as strong as horses We've got hearts as strong as horses We've got hearts as strong as horses
And we're playing to win as we gallop to glory We can conquer any challenge we're in We've got hea-a-a-arts, hearts strong as horses Hearts strong as horses
Whoa!
Oof!
If that's the best you've got, we're going to win for sure.
We already have the most divine routine planned.
It's absolutely sure to crush everyone else – and I mean crush.
But we're winners! And we have [starts singing] hearts--
Sure. But you know what you don't have?
Your cutie marks! Blank flanks, blank flanks, blank flanks!
What does that have to do with flag carryin'?
Having cutie mark-less ponies represent Ponyville would be unthinkable.
And we, of course, already have our cutie marks. So we know who's gonna be in the winner's circle.
Listen, you two! Cutie marks or no cutie marks, you'll see! The Crusaders are gonna carry that flag at the Games.
May the best ponies win!
Game on!
Show me what you got, Cutie Mark Crusaders, and make it good!
Don't worry, we will!
Now, this is just a little something we threw together. It's not perfect yet, not even close.
Let's watch the Cutie Mark "Goof-saders" do their saddle routine.
They're gonna be a hot mess!
Since the dawn of recorded time, in one town of amazing amazingness, three types of ponies coexist!
We are Earth ponies!
We are unicorns!
We are Pegasi! And the town where friendship reigns is our home. Now, welcome to the stadium, the flag of the place we love best...
Ponyville forever! Yay!
It's kind of a work in progress. So? What did you think?
That was ama-- [in her head] Wait. Hold on now. Gotta stay calm, cool and collected. [out loud] To give a calm, clear analysis-- Wait. You whipped that act together just yesterday?! That is-- [in her head] Professionalism, Dash, keep those emotions in check! [out loud] Overall, it was... kinda, sorta... [quickly] Overall, it was okay. Keep working hard. Who knows? You might have a shot. Gotta go!
Do y'all think she liked it?
I'm not really sure.
You heard her! If we keep working hard, we might have a shot! So let's keep working! Trot to it, ponies!
Did you see that?! I can't believe I'm saying this. They could win!
But how do we stop them? We already called them blank flanks!
Then we need to find a new way to get under their skin. Or maybe... get under their wings.
Girls, we just wanted to say your act is quite impressive!
Wait... What?
Um... Thanks?
Oh, but of course. As a matter of fact, we think you're very brave.
Brave? Why?
Isn't it obvious? It is to us. In fact, it's obvious to everypony. You're showing all three types of Ponyville ponies, yet you have a Pegasus pony...
...who can't even fly!
What in tarnation does that have to do with anything?
I'd say not even being able to fly has everything to do with everything. Doesn't it?
I mean, a Pegasus pony at your age? You should've been flying long ago.
So what if my wings can't get me off the ground?
Your career as a flag carrier isn't getting off the ground either.
Ms. Harshwhinny will never pick a Pegasus pony who can't fly to represent Ponyville in front of all of Equestria.
Ms. Harshwhinny never said anything about that!
I would've thought that was obvious.
Well, have fun practicing anyway, even if your routine will never—how shall I say—take off!
Don't listen to them, Scootaloo. Scootaloo? You okay?
This routine isn't working how it is. We've gotta rethink my part in the whole thing.
What?
Why?
If we wanna win, I'm gonna have to fly!
Is that even possible?
And by tomorrow?
Maybe I can win if I work twice as hard. See? Oof! Maybe... three times as hard.
Golly, I don't know, Scootaloo, I don't think that's the problem.
Well, I know this for sure – flying is the only way we're gonna win, so it's back to practice!
Is this a good idea?
Whoaaaaa!
I'll just work four times as hard!
Probably not.
[sighs] Guys, guys, guys! Try it again!
[yawns] But we've been rehearsin' all the livelong day! We're gettin' tired!
Fine! We'll skip to my big impressive flying entrance. So you've done the do-si-do to the left, then to the right, and then there's the hoop. Then I come in--
[hushed] I liked the routine the way it was!
[hushed] Me too! But all she cares about now is flying!
[panting] Ponyville! Home of the, um...
[hushed] Friendship!
Ah, friendship, right! Uh, there are four-- no, three kinds of ponies.
[hushed] Left, left!
[hushed] I'm sorry! I'm just tired! And then I dip, and then we turn, and-- Sorry!
Ta-da! Oof! [panting] So? What'cha think?
That's... y'know... good and all, heheh... I just thought... maybe possibly you might wanna go back to, say, the first version of the act, which was, I dunno, what's the word, better? Just do the routine as it was! Don't mess with success, right? Seriously. Now I need to... go coach these other ponies! And don't forget, we've got to catch the early train for the Crystal Empire. See you in the morning!
What are we gonna do?! We're competing tomorrow, and I still can't fly! Unless...
I'm just too tired! I can't keep going!
Me too! I'm tired, I'm hungry, and now I hate this routine! It feels like it's all about you now!
She's right. It's like you don't even need us anymore!
Of course I need you! Without you two, who's gonna hold up the hoop?
Rrgh! You don't listen to yourself! Forget it. I'm goin' home to get some sleep.
So? Are you gonna leave me too?
We've gotta catch the early train to the Crystal Empire. I'd better get some rest. See you in the morning, Scootaloo.
Come on, Scootaloo! Do it for Ponyville! Just got to try twenty times as hard! [straining noises] Thirty times as hard...! Oof! Just... a little... harder!
[straining noises] [sighs] I can't fly. I just... can't.
Crystal Empire! All aboard!
Scootaloo? Where is she?
She'd better get here soon! This here train is about to leave!
Here I am...
We were scared you were gonna miss the train!
I... I'm not going.
What?!
I'm the weak link. If I go, and fall, flop, or do anything but fly, I'm gonna blow it for you two.
I can't believe you're quitting on us!
But you're better off without me!
But that's not true, Scootaloo!
You know what, Sweetie Belle? Forget it. If she's gonna quit, we don't want her, and we don't need her!
Fine!
Fine!
Fine...
All aboard!
How's my favorite routine going today? Oh, I just can't keep it in! I want you to win so bad! [to the BGM] Bom, bom, bom, bom... and then Scootaloo does that [half-whistles] through the hoop!
Well, there ain't gonna be a Scootaloo.
She's staying home.
She's what?!
She got it in her head that the only way to represent Ponyville was by flyin' in our routine! When she couldn't do it, she told us that she was quittin'.
And then you tried to stop her from doing that, right?
Well, actually, we kinda told her...
...uh, that we didn't want a quitter.
Hang on. Are you nuts?! You're a team, and a team never leaves a friend behind!
Come on!
Sorry you can't make it! We'll take a picture for you from the winner's circle!
I do not like them one bit.
Put on some speed, girls!
Throwing away your scooter?!
Rainbow Dash?
Yup, but not just me.
I don't wanna see them. And what are they doing here, anyway? They're supposed to be on the train.
We're not goin'.
Not without you, Scootaloo.
What's gotten into you, Scootaloo?
I didn't want to ruin their chance to win just because I couldn't fly.
And who said you had to?
But flying's what Pegasus ponies are supposed to do! You flew when you carried the flag in the games!
But that was me! You're you! And it just doesn't matter if you can fly or not. Your routine was amazing 'cause it represented exactly what makes Ponyville special. You do still know what that is, right?
Friendship.
Three kinds of ponies livin' together as friends. Just like us. Earth ponies...
...unicorns...
...and Pegasi. But Rainbow Dash... what if... what if my wings never grow? What if I never fly?
Listen, Scootaloo. Maybe you'll fly someday, or maybe you won't. You're all kinds of awesome anyway. Who's the toughest little pony in town?
Got the moves, got the mojo...
No harder working pony around.
We are a trio, work as a team
[Apple Bloom, Scootaloo, and Sweetie Belle] We'll be the first ponies out on the flag-waving scene
So let's get to the Crystal Empire and let's do the routine as it was! And let's win this thing!
[Apple Bloom, Scootaloo, and Sweetie Belle] We've got hearts as strong as horses We've got hearts as strong as horses We've got hearts as strong as horses
And we're playing to win as we gallop to glory We can conquer any challenge we're in We've got hea-a-a-arts, hearts strong as horses Hearts strong as horses
Ponyville forever! Yay!
Ms. [through microphone] In the Equestria Games, the Ponyville flag will be carried by... 'Cutie Mark Crusaders'!
Ahem. Look. What you three did was... acceptable.
Contain your excitement, Ms. Harshwhinny. Remember – professionalism.
You know what this means, right?
What?
We are totally gonna get cutie marks in flag-carrying!
Yeah!
Spike, you really need to go to sleep!
Aw, two more minutes, Twilight! I'm just getting to the really good part! The Mane-iac is about to—
"The Mane-iac"?
The Power Ponies' most evil nemesis! She was the power-mad owner of a hair-care product company. A tragic accident at her shampoo factory in Maretropolis not only gave her mane strange new powers, but also caused her to go completely insane! She and her henchponies are planning to break into the Maretropolis Museum and steal the Electro-Orb, so she can use it to power up her doomsday device! Of course, the Mane-iac wouldn't have even known if Hum Drum hadn't slipped up and told her all about it.
Hum Drum?
Nah, the guy in the blue boots and pointless red cape. The Power Ponies' bumbling and totally useless sidekick. The Power Ponies have to stop the Mane-iac or Maretropolis is doo-hoo-hoo-hoomed!
Believe me, Spike. If anypony understands what it's like to get caught up in a really good book, it's me. But if we're going to make any progress fixing up Luna and Celestia's old castle tomorrow, we all have to do our part. We don't want to be too tired to lend a hoof... or claw.
Okay, okay, I'm going to bed. Goodnight.
Two more minutes.
Yes!
Looking good, everypony! Let's keep this magical makeover moving!
You got it!
Good old Spike is here, ready to do his part!
A little more to the left! No, the other left! [quickly] Awesome! That's perfect right where it is! On to the next painting!
You sure you don't need any help?
Nah, that's okay.
[quickly] We have everything under control!
Dash?
I'm good!
[sighs] Isn't there anything I can help you with, Twilight?
[quickly] Don't worry about it, Spike! It's all good!
I think she's right. It looks like we've got it, Spike. Looking great, everypony! Why don't you find a quiet spot and finish reading your comic? Aren't you right at the part where Hum Drum was about to stop the villain?
Rarity, lemme give you a hoof with that!
I could do it!
That's okay, Spike.
Pony power! Weehee!!
[to himself] Mane-iac breaks into the museum... Okay, here we go. ...Ugh, what a surprise! Hum Drum is in the way again while the Power Ponies do all the work! I guess I know what that feels like... [gasps] Wait. What? How can that be the end?! What's... that? "You can... retr-" What? "You can... return..." Urgh! I know I saw a magnifying glass laying around the last time I was here...
Spike! Where are ya, Spike?
We're breaking for tea and biscuits!
Spike!
[reading] "You can return to the place you started when the Mane-iac is... defeated." Huh? "Take a closer look to join the adventure in this book"? What does that even mean? Whoa! Cool!
Spike! What are you—
Heeeeeelp!
Weehee!
Is this... Maretropolis?
Somepony wanna tell me what the hay is goin' on?
Holy new personas, ponies! You're the... Masked Matter-Horn! Fili-Second! Zapp! R-Radiance! Mistress Mare-velous! Saddle Rager! You're the... Power Ponies!
Mane- Power Ponies! [laughs] How kind of you to join us!
Huh?
Did she just call us... Power Ponies?
You're the... the superheroes from my comic book! It somehow zapped us all in here!
So somepony zap us back out!
My comic book! It said the way to get back to where we started was to defeat the Mane-iac! Your arch-nemesis!
Mane- Time for the mane event!
Pinkie! Where'd she go?!
Wheeeeeeee!
She could be miles away from here by now! Pinkie is Fili-Second, the fastest pony in all of Maretropolis!
Twilight! Freeze her mane!
Do what?
You're the Masked Matter-Horn! You can shoot all kinds of crazy power beams from your horn!
Dash! Quick! You're Zapp, and your superpower is controlling the mighty forces of nature! Unholster the lightning bolt!
Lightning, not a tornado!
Whoa!
Whoa-whoa!
Fluttershy! You're Saddle Rager! Lose your temper, and you'll turn into a huge, super-strong monster!
Oh, gosh! That wouldn't... be very... polite!
Ugh! Rarity! Use your jewelry to create attack constructs!
What's an attack construct?!
Just think of something, anything, and your bracelet makes it appear!
Something useful!
The Electro-Orb!
I'm Hum Drum...?! Oh no... [straining noises] Applejack! You gotta... help stop the... tornado from destroying.. the city!
But every time I move, this darn lasso gets tighter!
You're psychically connected to it! Will it to where you want it to go, and it'll obey you!
[giggles] That was spin-tastic!
Lemme get this straight: We've been sucked into some kind of comic-book world?
Technically, it's called Maretropolis. And if we wanna get back to Ponyville, I think we have to stop the Mane-iac from using her doomsday device to destroy it!
No biggie. I was already awesome. And now we've all got superpowers!
Almost all of us have superpowers...
But you must have them too, Spikey-boo. Your character is wearing a cape!
Yeah, for absolutely no reason. He's pretty much useless...
Good thing you're not really Hum Drum, then.
Yeah, good thing...
So the six of us Power Ponies will take care of Mane-iac, and get us back to Ponyville!
Spike, where is the Mane-iac building her doomsday device?
Her top-secret headquarters! But you'd better get there quick. That glowing orb she just stole is what she's going to use to power it up!
Lead the way, Spike!
Then leave the rest to us!
There it is!
Is that a... shampoo factory?
All right, Power Ponies, here's the plan. Rarity, you, me and—
Come on out, Mane-iac! Or the Power Ponies are comin' in!
So much for "element of surprise".
Guess I'll just hang back here doing nothing.
Oh, I don't think she's home. Maybe we should just come back later.
She's home.
Time to Power Pony up!
Ooh! Nice catchphrase!
Freeze ray!
It's an improvement, darling.
Ooh, I do so love a functional accessory!
My hair!
Seriously? You aren't even just a little angry right now?
Nice work, Power Ponies! Now let's take care of the Mane-iac and get ourselves home!
Mane- I don't think so! I have a city to destroy, and I'm not about to let the Power Ponies stop me! Not this time!
Just watch us!
The Hairspray Ray of Doom! It stops you in your tracks and renders your powers useless!
We'll just see about that!
Fluttershy, please! Just a little anger?!
Well, I'm not so much angry as I am concerned, bordering on terrified!
Don't spray!
Mane- [cackles] Oh, Hum Drum, why in all of Maretropolis would I use the Hairspray Ray of Doom on you? Rather pointless, don't you think?
What am I supposed to do? I'm useless. No wonder my friends never need me to do anything important. They're the ones with superpowers. They've probably already figured out how to escape.
Or not!
Ahem. I don't mean to interrupt, but aren't you forgetting about somepony?
Mane- Hum Drum? Little guy? No superpowers whatsoever? [laughs] He's utterly useless!
Mane- Puh-lease. Everypony knows you just keep him around because you [condescending tone] feel sowwy for him. Wah. Wah.
Maybe in your world. But in our world, Spike— uh, Hum Drum always comes through when we need him! Always!
I'm not like Hum Drum! When my friends really need me, I do come through! And they need me now!
Way to go, Spike!
Get mad!
Tag you're it! Tag you're it! Tag you're it! Tag you're it!
Mane- Over there! There! There! Idiots!
Need a place to put these guys!
Hold it right there, partner!
Fluttershy, where are you going?
You seem to have everything under control.
Fluttershy, we need you! You have to power up!
I'm sorry, it's just that nothing is making me mad.
Once again, the day is saved by—
Awesome!
Whoo-ee!
Did you see how I was raining down a storm of justice at the end there?!
You catch how I was wieldin' that lasso?
Cupcakes?
How did you—
Eh, we had a good half second before we got sucked back out of the comic, and the Maretropolis bakery was only sixty-five blocks away!
I'm just glad to be back.
We wouldn't have made it without you, Spike. And I hope you realize that just because we don't always need your help, it doesn't mean that we don't think you're helpful.
And that you don't have to have superpowers to be a super friend.
But I do have one question. Where exactly did you get that comic book?
This one I got in Canterlot at the House of Enchanted Comics. Well, I didn't know it meant they were literally enchanted!
I thought it just meant, like, the comics they sold there had really enchanting storylines! Hey, wait up! I'm an important part of this team, remember?!
Any minute now...
What the heck is goin' on? [gasps] They're back!
Attention! This is a Sweet Apple Acres code red! I need all hooves – and claws – on deck!
Calm down, Applejack.
Calm down?! How can I calm down at a time like this?! Vampire fruit bats are attackin' Sweet Apple Acres!
But I thought the fruit bats usually stayed put in the west orchard.
The fruit bats do, but these aren't just your everyday ordinary fruit bats. They're vampire fruit bats! I'll be darned if they think they're gonna sink their fangs into my blue ribbon apple.
Awesome!
This here's our entry into the Appleloosa State Fair's produce competition. [exhales] You know how much TLC goes into getting an apple to grow like this?
Applejack! When you go big, you really go big!
Them vampire bats want to shrivel it up like a raisin!
Oh, I'm sure if we just let them know how special that particular apple is to you, they'll leave it alone.
Yeah, right. Be my guest.
Um, excuse me, Mr. Vampire Bat--
We were just wondering if maybe you wouldn't mind leaving that really big apple alone?
Well? What'd he say?
Um... yes.
Huh?!
But... it could've been a no.
Oh.
This is the first vampire fruit bat I've ever met and, well, it might take some time for me to really understand their language.
Uh-huh. And in the meantime, this pest and his vermin friends are gonna go after my prized apple and, while they're at it, every other apple in the orchard! These vampire bats are nothin' but a bunch of monsters!
Monsters?! Oh, that's a bit harsh, don't you think?
No, I do not.
Those vampire bats will give you a fright Eating apples both day and night They rest for a minute, maybe three Then they're eatin' every apple in your apple tree
They don't care about nada, not zilch, no, nothin' 'Cept bringin' about an orchard's destruction
Now wait just a minute, there's another side to this And if I did not defend them, then I would be remiss These bats are mamas and papas too They care for their young just like we ponies do
Oh, give me a break, you're bein' too kind These creatures have a one-track mind The orchard is not their restaurant But do they ever think what others may want? No! They don't! And that is just a fact These bats, they simply don't know how to act
That's where I have to disagree They're loyal to their family Spreading seeds both far and wide
You see one comin', you'd better run and hide! They're big and ugly and mean as sin Will ya look at the state my trees are in?
They help your trees, they'll grow stronger faster
They've turned my life to a total disaster!
Well, I for one don't have a doubt These vermin must be stamped right out
I second that, they've got to go These bats, they've got to hit the road
It comes down to just one simple fact They've crossed the line, it's time to fight them back!
Stop the bats! Stop the bats! Make them go and not come back! Stop the bats! Stop the bats! Make them go and not come back! Stop the bats! Stop the bats! Make them go and not come back!
Yes, it comes down to just one simple fact They've crossed the line, it's time that we attack!
I'm sorry, Fluttershy, but I believe Applejack has made the better argument. These vampire fruit bats sound downright dreadful.
So let's get to roundin' them up so they don't destroy the rest of my orchard.
[to the tune of Winter Wrap Up] Fruit bat round-up, fruit bat round-up!
Um, excuse me, but, um, what if instead of rounding them up, we... let them have part of the orchard?
[whinny] Have you lost your pest-lovin' mind?!
They're only here because they're hungry! If we build a sanctuary for them, they could have their own apples to enjoy! After a while, they could even help the rest of your orchard! The vampire bats don't eat the seeds of the apples, and when they spit them out, they grow into even more productive apple trees!
Listen, Fluttershy. That sounds real nice 'n' all, but every second we spend buildin' this so-called 'sanctuary' is a second they'll spend destroyin' orchards! You don't know what it was like the last time there was an infestation, but Granny Smith has told me enough stories about it that just the thought of it gives me nightmares! [narrating] Granny says we lost a huge section of orchard that year. They had to ration out apples all winter!
What about the cider? There was still cider, right?
Not...a...drop.
No cider?! No cider?! We need to round up these monsters, and we need to do it now!
If Granny Smith wasn't with Apple Bloom an' Big Mac checkin' out our produce competition in Appleloosa, she'd be here tellin' us to do just that!
I'm sorry, Fluttershy, but I think Applejack is right. I just wish there was another way we could convince them not to eat them in the first place. Maybe there is...!
So, there's good news and bad news. The good news is that I found a spell that can get the vampire fruit bats to stop wanting to suck the juice from the apples. But in order for the spell to work, I need the bats' full and complete attention.
[gasps] Oh no.
Fluttershy, I need you to do your Stare on the bats.
Oh, gosh, I don't know.
What's the problem? You've used the Stare plenty of times before!
Yes, but it's not something I take lightly. I've made a vow not to use it except in dire circumstances.
This circumstance is plenty dire to me!
Me too! Think of the cider! Won't somepony please think of the cider?!
I'm sorry. I just don't like the idea of taking away the thing that really makes the vampire fruit bats [inhales] vampire fruit bats! It just feels wrong!
But if we don't do this, there won't be any apples left for anypony here in Ponyville. Doesn't that feel wrong, too?
So what's it gonna be, Fluttershy? Will you do your Stare on the bats or not?
Um... Um... Okay, I'll do it.
They're not icky.
First round of cider's on me!
Hold it right there! We've gotta round up these beasts with wings first. Time's a-wastin'!
[muffled] [yelps] Ew, ew, ew, ewwww!
Gotcha!
Good work, everypony! I think we got 'em all! [to Fluttershy] Now all we need is for you do to your Stare.
Oh, um, are you sure I really need-- Okay. I really, really, really hate to do this to you... I just hope you can forgive me...
Good... Now you go, Twilight!
Alright.
You can stop staring, Fluttershy.
Did it work?
Only one way to find out for sure.
Ye-he-heah, whoo!
My crop is saved! Yee-haw!
We'll be drinking cider all winter long!
I wanna thank you for your help. I couldn't have done it without you.
Aw, don't mention it, Applejack. It was my pleasure! Really!
Now all we gotta do is sweep up these cores so I can start buckin' fresh tomorrow mornin'!
Apple Bucking Day, take two!
The spell didn't work!
You're darn tootin' the spell didn't work! I think we're gonna have to take more extreme measures!
I hear ya, Applejack! C'mon, everypony! Let's track down those vampire bats!
Wait a minute... I don't think these bats are the ones that sucked my apples dry.
But if the vampire bats aren't eating your apples...
Who is? Fluttershy, you're our animal expert. Do you know of any other creature that might be capable of this?
I'm sorry. I don't.
Well, there's only one way to find out. We'll have to catch whoever it is in the act.
And how do you propose we do that?
A stakeout...!
[spookily] The witching hour...
Oh, Fluttershy, it'll be okay. Don't forget, darling, we're all in this together.
That's right. Nopony leaves this orchard until we've solved this mystery. Agreed?
Agreed!
Does everypony have their pony signals? Now remember, Pinkie Pie, only use the signal if you see somethin' suspicious.
I got it. Something suspicious...
Whatcha doin'?!
Alright, now everypony split up. We'll each patrol our own row of the orchard. Whoever or whatever's destroyin' my apples has gotta be here somewhere.
What was that?! [gasps] Suspicious! [giggles] It's pony signal time!
Who's there? Oh, well, there's obviously no need to worry about that shadowy figure overhead... [frightened] Or maybe there is! I think I'll just go see how Rainbow Dash is doing...
Uh... who's there? Answer me or you'll regret it! Fine, have it your own way! Take that, you, you, you... scarecrow... Oh.
Applejack, what is it?
Suspicious!
Fluttershy? Yoo-hoo! Fluttershy!
That's not Fluttershy... That's Flutterbat!
We've gotta get her down from there!
Uh... Fluttershy, sweetness, please come down, and... do stop being a vampire bat.
Fluttershy! It's me, Rainbow Dash! Why don't you cut the bat act and come on down?!
[yelps] Whoa! Maybe we should just let her come down when she's ready.
Flutterbat on the loose! Run for your lives!
Pinkie Pie, calm down! See? She's back on her... branch.
She's just biding her time! Waiting for the right moment to pounce!
Pinkie Pie, bats don't eat ponies. Not even vampire bats.
But maybe vampire ponies eat other ponies! I'm not taking any chances!
How did this happen? That's what I don't understand.
I think this was actually our fault.
Our fault?
And how'd you figure that?
Okay, so this is me, these are the bats, and this is Fluttershy doing her Stare. The spell was supposed to go right onto the bats like this, but somehow the spell must have backfired. It took the vampire fruit bats' desire to be vampire fruit bats and transferred that desire into Fluttershy. C'mon! We'll reverse the spell and make it right!
Then what are we waiting for? Let's save Fluttershy before that thing eats us all!
Hit the deck!
Follow that bat!
I can't believe we lost her!
Oh, Fluttershy, where are you?
Look out! Whoa!
If she keeps this up, your whole crop will be gone in no time!
That's the least of my worries. I just want my friend back.
We'll never get her back unless we corner her and catch her so I can reverse the spell!
[hushed] There she is!
There she goes!
Oh, this is no use. I think the only way we're gonna catch her is if we find a way to lure her closer to us.
But even if we can lure her to us, how're we gonna get her to stay still long enough for you to do your reverse spell?
Aww, if only we had Fluttershy to do her Stare on the Flutterbat.
[gasps] That's it!
Okay, let's get our friend back. Action stations!
So much for having the winning apple in the Appleloosa State Fair, huh?
[hushed] She's coming!
Oh... where am I?
Thank goodness you're okay!
But... what happened to me?
You turned into a vampire pony!
[gasps] I tried to eat ponies?!
Of course not!
So I wasn't a vampire?
Yes!
Yes I was, or yes I wasn't?
Yes, you were!
But I didn't try and eat ponies?
Yes!
I did?!
No!
I'm confused...
Me too... and I was there!
Fluttershy, I'm real sorry I didn't take your suggestion in the first place.
And don't forget, now you'll get seeds that will grow into even bigger and better apple trees.
Does that mean what I think it means?
Yup! More cider too.
Yea-he-heah, whoo!
Okay, got the part about the spell, Fluttershy turning into a bat, building a sanctuary...
Be sure to put in there that I came to see that my short-term solution was a little short-sighted.
And that you shouldn't let anypony pressure you into doing something that you don't think is right. Sometimes you have to tell even your closest friends 'no'.
Now, how about we celebrate our stronger than ever friendship with a nice, ripe, juicy apple?
There you are, Rarity! That's the last of your bags.
Actually, Spike, I've got one last pile of bags, over there. Won't you be a dear?
An entire week in the fabulous city of Manehattan! Plus, all of my very best friends there with me!
Of course we'd all come along to support you during Fashion Week, Rarity!
Not that you'll need it. We're sure you'll win.
[squeals] I can't begin to tell you how excited I am that you'll all be there with me! However... Perhaps I can show you...
What's that?
Ooh, ooh, ooh, I know! A paper fan!
No, it's—
A magic trick! You know, where I pick a card and remember what it is and then you put it back in the deck so you can't look at it and—
These are tickets to the hottest musical on Bridleway!
You couldn't mean Hinny of the Hills... because that show's been sold out for months! Or could you?!
I could. I do.
[gasps] Oh, Rarity, you didn't have to do that, but... since you did...
This trip is fun already! I love jumping up and down! Whee-hee!
Come along, ponies! I found us a place to stay only a block from the train station in the very heart of this glorious metropolis!
Hey, look! That's the theatre where Hinny of the Hills is playin'!
Wow, Rarity! How'd you manage to get us seats for tomorrow night?
Oh, I gave some designs to the costume designer, so he pulled a few strings.
Applejack, Cool!
That is what makes Manehattan so splendid and amazing. You do something nice for somepony, and then you never know when they'll do something nice for you!
So then you can do something nice for us!
Like get us in to see Hinny of the Hills!
Which is only the best musical in all of Equestria!
It must be good if Rainbow Dash is impressed. Normally she doesn't even like musicals.
I know. Ponies just bursting into song in random places at the drop of a hat? Who does that?
Oh, Manehattan, what you do to me Such a huge bustling community And there's always opportunity To do the friendly thing
If some are grouchy, pay no mind Surprise instead with something kind Lo and behold, you may just find A smile is what you bring
"Luggage Cart": Welcome to the Manefair Hotel! Please allow me to take those bags to your room for you!
Only if you'll accept this gratuity first.
"Luggage Cart": Oh-ho-ho! I'll get your change!
Do keep it all. I insist!
Generosity, I'm here to show all that I can give Generosity, I'm here to set the bar Just sit back and watch how I live
After you.
Why, thank you.
Please, take mine.
"Wisp": Wow, okay.
Some may say, "Rarity, Don't be so big-hearted and bold Treating strangers like they're friends This town's too big and cold"
But this is how I play my cards I'm not about to fold Where I see a frown, I go to town Call me the smile patrol
Oh, Manehattan, what you do to us
What if you find a Gloomy Gus?
It's no intimidatin' thing
Just be kind without a fuss
Generosity, I'm here to show all that I can do Generosity, you are the key Manehattan, I'm here just for you Just for you
[sigh] To think my dresses could soon be displayed on the most glamorous shopping thoroughfare of the most glamorous city in Equestria! Oh, it would be my dream come true!
Is there anything left to do we can help you with?
Hm, nothing I can think of. The dresses are all completely finished, all made from a fabulous new fabric I've been developing for months. Stretchy, but not clingy. Shimmery, but not showy.
Sounds amazing.
There's nothing left for me to do but check in at the runway with my dresses by two this afternoon.
Oh, that's funny. Because that clock over there makes it seem like that's only ten minutes from now!
Oh, my ribbons and threads. And the runway ballroom is all the way across town! If I don't get there, I'm disqualified! Taaaaxiii!
Oh, no! We've gotta help her find a cab, now!
I'm on it! Hey, buddy! Is this cab taken?
The line ends back there, "buddy"!
Huh? What? Does everypony in this town want a cab?
I'm afraid getting a taxi at this time could prove almost impossible!
Please won't you let her have this taxi? She has somewhere very important to be right away!
Not likely! She can get in line like the rest of us!
Oh, it's no use! The cab drivers just drive right past to get to the next pony in line!
"Pronto": New wheel works like a charm! So now which of you nice folks are hoppin' in?
Fashion runway plaza in seven minutes. Can you make it?
"Pronto": Hang on!
Ta-ta!
Whew, that was close.
Anypony else got a sneaking suspicion we're forgetting something?
The dresses!
[out of breath, quickly] Good afternoon, I'm here for Fashion Week!
Everypony's gathered in front of the runway and about to start, so you'll just have to bring your dresses along with you and store them backstage later.
My– My dresses! How could I possibly forget them?! [gasps] I'm dooooomed!
"Luggage Cart": Got 'em right here, ma'am! Your friends told me you need these in a hurry, so I offered to race 'em over myself. "Anything for that nice mare," I told 'em!
You're a lifesaver!
[sighs] I made it! And with seconds to spare! Hello, everypony. Pleased to meet you all.
Rarity, I presume.
You must be Prim Hemline, the host of this grand event. How do you—?
Miss Rarity, how is it that all your competitors are here half an hour early, and yet you arrive seconds before we begin?
Uhhhh... [chuckles nervously] Just... lucky, I guess.
Once we're done here, you're to finish setting up backstage, so you'll be ready for your run-through appointment. You show your designs last. We keep to a precise schedule, so let's try to be more than a few seconds early, hmm? Tomorrow is the contest to see which one of you gets to stay to meet top designers all across the city. The rest of you must go home early. So sad. Dismissed!
[chuckles] I'm so glad you made it, Rarity!
Me too, but everything just seems to keep working out!
Don't you remember me? Suri Polomare from the Ponyville Knitters League?
Oh, yes, of course, of course! I– I thought you looked familiar, but I couldn't place it. You haven't been back in years!
Because I moved here to make it in the big city. [laughs], okay?
Oh, good for you, Sur—
Ooh, it's so good to see you! And now here we are, competing! [laughs], okay?
Yes, yes. Well, good luck!
Oh, I don't need luck. Would you like a hoof with your things?
Why, thank you so much!
My, your collection is gorgeous!
Oh now, I'm sure your collection is equally lovely, if not more so!
It's alright, but nothing like this! Take my culottes, for example – they are simply crying out for just the right accent, but I haven't the slightest notion where I— [gasps] Actually... just a touch of this fabric could be perfect with it. W– Oh, hey, would you mind terribly if I took a swatch?
Oh, not at all! Here, I have loads extra.
You're sure?
Positive! Oh, well, it's been wonderful getting caught up, and I don't wish to be rude, but I must finish my preparations and I am a bit late as it... is?
Hello! I'm here half an hour early for my run-through appointment, just the way Prim likes!
Get in line over there. Oh my, that fabric's gorgeous, did you make that yourself?
Oh, why, yes. It's stretchy, but not clingy. Shimmery—
[simultaneously] Shimmery, but not showy. And the entire line is in the same adorable pattern. It works on everything from skirts to tops to shoes and, [chuckles]...
Oh, bravo! I've never seen anything like it!
You stole my fabric!
[laughs] I didn't steal it, okay? You gave it to me, 'member?
I gave you the fabric for accents! Not for your whole line! And how could you possibly make all of those outfits out of it so fast?!
Fast? Hah! Coco Pommel here took practically forever. Nearly got me completely disqualified.
Well, I wanted to make sure you'd win, so I took the extra time to—
Quiet! I pay an assistant to sew and get coffee, not talk. 'Kay?
[gasps] How could this happen?
Aw, sweetie, don't blame yourself. It takes some small-town fillies a while to learn it's everypony for herself in the big city, m'kay?
Hope you realize how fortunate you are to have me as a mentor. Now get me some coffee!
Oh, my gosh, what a great afternoon! That was almost too much fun!
Better pace yourself, 'cause the rest of the day is jam-packed!
First there's the salon appointment to get our manes done.
Then our fancy dinner at the Far-Afield Tavern!
And after that...
Is... everything okay?
You got the dresses the bellhop brought you and everything, right?
But he said he brought them.
Now, Rarity, whatever went wrong, we're all here to help you get through it, no matter what it takes.
Come on, Rarity, buck up! All we need is some fabric and you'll be back in business!
[gasps] This new line is going to be marvelous! Perhaps even better than the last! It's daring, it's bold! Perhaps I still have a chance after all!
Twilight! Sew these pieces together according to that pattern there!
You said if we skipped dinner at the Far-Afield Tavern, you'd order a meal for us while we keep working.
Don't fret. It'll be here in an hour. That's not going to be a problem, is it?
Well, we're supposed to be watching Hinny of the Hills by then...
Oh! I see! I go out of my way to get you tickets for a show, and this is how you repay me? By abandoning me in my hour of need? Oh, oh, oh! Fine! Go and see Hinny of the Hills tonight! And then tomorrow morning when you come to see my fashion show without any fashion to show, you can have more entertainment! "Oh, why look, there's our friend Rarity going down in flames! Isn't friendship magic?!"
Rarity, calm down. What's gotten into you?
What's gotten into you?! Oh, go ahead! See your little show! Congratu-pony-lations, fillies! Sounds like you've all figured out already it's everypony for herself in this town!
There. That's the last of them.
[gasps] Finally!
You're welcome!
Let's have another round of applause for Suri Polomare's amazing collection.
That fabric! So original!
[chuckles] Well look who's here. Here to show off your copycat collection, mm? Heh.
And now, Rarity from Ponyville with her brand new line – and I mean "brand new" – Hotel Chic.
Oh! They're liking it! I think I may have just won this thing! Oh, I can't wait to celebrate with... My friends. They didn't come. What have I done?
Rarity, they all adore you! Aren't you going to tell them about your fabulous pieces?
I have to go.
[gasps] Come back at once!
This is unheard of!
"Luggage Cart": How do you do, ma'am? Contest going well?
No time to talk. I have to find my friends!
"Luggage Cart": Oh, uh, they're gone already. I saw them headed out this morning.
Oh, no! Back to Ponyville, I imagine. Oh, they worked so hard on my behalf! And I repaid them with unkindness. What have I done?! Oh... here you are.
"Luggage Cart": But miss, I– I didn't do anything!
Oh, Manehattan, what have I done? The thought of Fashion Week was fun But I went way too far My friends gave to me in ways so kind And I gave them nothing but a hard time
And now alone I stand And now alone I stand
I need a moment with Prim Hemline. I have to rush back to Ponyville, but I just wanted to thank her first for—
Uh-uh-uh, you'd best steer clear of Prim for a while. She's pretty furious. Isn't that right?
Um... yes.
There you all are! I can't believe it, I thought you went back home!
We missed the show because we overslept. Suri told us you lost. I'm really sorry.
I lost? You know what? I don't even care. I'm just happy you're all still here after how I treated you. Taking advantage of your friendship the way I did. How could you ever see past it?
Yeah, you were pretty rotten.
Wow, Applejack. I know your thing is honesty, but come on!
Last night we may not have seen you at your best, but we know you. And we would never let one thing like that change how we feel about you.
Oh, thank you! You really are the most wonderful friends a pony could have! You know, I already arranged to make it up to you this afternoon! Hope you're all available for an exclusive performance of Hinny of the Hills!
And that is how it's done. Pretty clever how I convinced her to stay away from Prim, wasn't it? [chuckles] Wouldn't have wanted her to find out the truth now, would we?
[singing] And I'm a dancing pony!
Wow! That was even better than I imagined!
I loved it! [beat] Uh, I mean, it was a'ight.
How did you ever get them to agree to do an extra performance just for us?
Remember my costume designer friend who got me the tickets? Well, I offered to make all the costumes for his next show!
Um, here in Manehattan?
Well, um... yes... it will keep me away from Ponyville for a while.
But I so wanted you to see this show! And working for this designer is such a great opportunity!
We know. We're happy for you, Rarity. We're just sad for us.
Mind if I join you?
Sure. Come on down. This is the first place trophy for Fashion Week. [gasps] With my name on it! But I thought I lost!
You didn't. You won. Suri was hoping that if you didn't claim your prize, the judges would consider it a forfeit and first place would go to her. So she lied to make you and your friends go away, and, well, I lied too. I've worked for Suri for so long, I started to believe that it really is everypony for herself in this town. Until I saw how generous you were with your friends and how generous they were with you. It made me start believing there was something better for me out there. So, I– I quit. I brought you something to say thank you.
Hm. I suppose you'll need a job now that you're no longer with Suri. How would you like to work for my friend making all the costumes for his next show?
Manehattan was simply grand. It was in this magnificent metropolis that I learned that, while there are ponies who will take advantage of your generosity, you should never, ever let that cause you to abandon your generous spirit. Nothing feels worse than taking advantage of the giving nature of your friends.
Whatcha doin'?
Aaagh!
Just some genealogical research.
Ohhh. [whispering] I don't know what that is.
Genealogy is the study of family history. Y'know, where ponies come from and who they're related to.
Ooh, fascinating.
Maybe you should pick one from the... top?
Uh-huh... Interesting... I see... Hmm, that makes sense... Not much of a surprise there... WHAT?!? This is the most amazing thing ever! Why didn't you tell me how amazing this is?! Genealogy is better than cotton candy on top of a fountain of chocolate! [thud] You'll never believe who it says I'm related to!
Hey, cousin!
This is just so excitin', I can hardly believe it!
I know! Isn't it the best?
I have another sister! I have another sister!
Well, you actually have a fourth cousin twice removed by a fifth cousin, but that's like exactly like a sister!
I'd try to tone it down a little around non-family members, because I don't want to make them jealous, but...
This is the best family ever!
It really is. You are gonna love bein' an Apple. I mean, you've got the playful one...
The strong one...
Eeyup.
And of course, there's Granny Smith, who knows everythin' about everythin'!
A Ponyville snail can hibernate for up to forty-eight moons!
Who knew?
And then there's me. [sniffs, exhales] Do you smell that sweet apple air, Pinkie Pie?
That was rhetorical. Of course you smell it. You're an Apple now!
And Applejack is the one responsible for it!
Aw, Apple Bloom, that is sweet, but--
It's true! I mean she keeps us all organized and on schedule and does her own part on top of it all!
Mm-hmm.
I was already super happy as a Pie! And now I get to be a part of this amazing family too?
It's even more amazin' now that you're in it! [rhythmically] We're family, we're family, you an' me are family!
Best family twirl everrrrrrr!
Huh, I just can't believe we've never heard anythin' about this before! Hmm...
What's wrong, sis?
I'm not seein' where exactly it says we're family.
It's riiiiiiiii- [inhales] -iiiiiight here!
It... is?
Uh-huh. Applesauce of the Apple family lineage is a fourth cousin twice removed of the Pie family!
I see the part about our great, great auntie Applesauce and fourth cousin twice removed part, but that last bit's awful smudged. Are you sure it says 'Pie'?
I guess it is a little smudged, but I see most of it there, and when I read it, I knew in my heart it was true!
Well, ain't that just the sweetest thing!
It is, it is. I'd just hate for us to get all excited before we found out for sure.
So how are we supposed to find out for sure?
Ehhhh... Oh! Cousin Goldie Delicious! Her cabin's practically an Apple family history museum! If anypony has the records to back up Pinkie's theory, it's her!
Huh, I suppose we could always... I mean, Goldie Delicious doesn't live that far away, and we haven't been on one as a family in a real long time... Are y'all thinkin' what I'm thinkin'?
Family road trip!
Has anypony seen my travelin' bonnet?
Isn't that it on your head?
No!
It looks an awful lot like--
Well, it ain't, and that's final!
Hey, everypony? Since Pinkie Pie's back home gettin' her stuff for the trip, can y'all gather round? I just wanted to say somethin' real quick.
I've had somethin' in my teeth this whole time, haven't I? Gadsnickety, what a way to welcome a family member!
Er, no, Granny, your teeth are fine. I just wanted to be sure that we're all on the same page about showin' Pinkie Pie how awesome a family we really are. We want her to get to know the family she's been born into, but, like, the best version of it, y'know?
Oh, [blows raspberry]. Don't you worry, honey. We're a great family, and she can't help but see it.
I'll bet my future cutie mark's gonna be a picture of me bein' the best behaved pony ever! That's how good I'm gonna be! Big Mac?
Eeyup.
Are y'all ready to go? Because I'm ready to go-go-go!
Er, Big Mac? Are you sure we really need all that stuff?
Eeyup.
Are you sure you're strong enough to really pull all that stuff?
Eeyup.
Are you sure the wagon's strong enough to hold it all?
[groans] Eeyup!
Then lets get this show on the road!
C'mon, Apples, y'all know this one!
Hot-diggity!
Yee-haw!
Eeyup.
We've traveled the road of generations Joined by a common bond We sing our song 'cross the pony nation From Equestria and beyond
We're Apples forever, Apples together We're family, but so much more No matter what comes, we will face the weather We're Apples to the core
Eeyup.
There's no place that I'd rather be Than travelin' with my family Friends all around come to join and see As we sing out across the land
[Applejack, Big McIntosh, and Apple Bloom] We're Apples forever, Apples together We're family, but so much more No matter what comes, we will face the weather We're Apples to the core
Eeyup.
We're peas in a pod, we're thick as thieves Any cliché you can throw at me We're here for each other, through thick and thin You're always welcome with your Apple kin Wheeeeee!
You're more fun than the color pink Or balloons flying over your favorite drink The love I feel here is swim, not sink As we party across this land
All right!
We're Apples forever, Apples together We're family, but so much more No matter what comes, we will face the weather We're Apples to the core!
Eeyup!
Big Mac! I thought you said– Uh, I thought– I mean, not that I'm blamin' you, because we don't blame in this family, but I thought you said all this stuff wasn't gonna be too heavy.
How're we supposed to get to Goldie Delicious now?
I don't know, but I don't see how we can go back now either. We're closer to cousin Goldie's that we are to home.
[gasps] I have the best... idea... ever! Family river trip!
Heh. Just one problem. We haven't got a raft. [under her breath] 'Bout the only thing that didn't get packed.
Well, back in the old days, we used to use the sap from a sugar pine tree to glue things together.
That is, uh, fascinatin'... Don't know that it's helpful, but it is fascinatin'...
Pfft! 'Not helpful', my patootie! We're gonna build ourselves a raft out of these here jalopy parts and keep it held together with sugar pine sap!
Hm, worth a shot!
Woo-hoo!
Could be worse, I guess. Now remember, this time we're only packin' the necessities.
Wait a second!
This one is for the scrapbook!
Pinkie Pie, when did you have time to make this?
Applejack, when you're family, you make the time.
Woo-hoo! We did it!
Say 'soaked'!
So what you're saying is, if I have the courage to jump, the parachute will open.
Eeyup.
Whoa! That is deep!
Eeyup.
Uh-oh... All right, y'all. Please tell me that the map didn' get wet. 'Cuz it looks like I'm gonna need it right about now.
Found it! Who's got the map? I got the map! M to the A to the yeah, that's right, P Ain't no other pony found a map like me I'm Applel—
Uh-oh.
[through gritted teeth] All you had to do was bring it to me. No singin', no dancin', no games. Just walk it over!
[through gritted teeth] Eeyup.
Say 'best siblings ever'!
Ooh, that's another keeper!
It's okay, y'all! I travelled down this river as a filly and I know it like the back of my hoof!
Are you sure you know which way to go?
Does a June bug like to hide in a tree?
Uh... I don't know.
Well, I do know! And I also know we wanna head southeast! Now step aside, young'un!
Um, Granny?
Myuh-huh?
Are we supposed to go through a cave?
Ah, don't worry, child! The scariest cave in Equestria was down that other way!
The scariest cave in Equestria?
Oh, it's a fright all right! Filled with creatures that'll eat ya soon as look at ya!
Ooh, sounds scary. Tell us more!
Ponies go in... but they never come out!
And you're sure it's not that cave? The one we're headin' straight for?
Now, Applejack, I taught you better than to question your elder ponies!
Heh... you sure did.
Alrighty then. Now everypony just sit on back an' leave the steerin' to your old Granny Smith.
See now? Told ya th--
Got it! Best scary unidentifiable creature ever! Say 'terrified'!
Guess that was the scariest cave in Equestria. Uh, of course I meant to take us through it! Unexpected adventure is good for the soul!
Best granny wisdom ever!
Uh-huh. Why don't you just scooch on over there, Granny? Think I'll take it from here on out.
Huh! Is that how I taught you to treat your elder ponies?
Ooh! Ooh! Is it?
You taught me to trust my common sense. And my common sense says we should get to Goldie Delicious's cabin in one piece.
And that is exactly what I'm gonna do!
That is mighty generous of you, but I think you've done enough for one day.
And how exactly are you gonna know which way to go?
Hmmmmmmm?
It would be easier if the map hadn't gone overboard!
Hey! There wouldn't have been an overboard if Big Mac hadn't overpacked the jalopy!
Eeyu- hey!
Exactly! So I think we can all agree that from here on out, I should be in charge of everythin'.
I just wanna say... that I think you're all super duper, and I can't wait to make a page in my scrapbook about the amazing waterfall we went down!
Wheeeee!
Huh! Told you that sugar pine sap would hold this thing together.
Uh, Pinkie Pie? Maybe you could read that one out loud?
Oh, right, sorry! I haven't even read it yet. I was just looking at how pretty the paper is. Okay, it says that she ran off to run some errands but will be home soon! Oh, that's perfect!
Why is that perfect?
Because it'll give me enough time to get more scrapbook paper! See ya!
Worst family road trip. Ever.
[sadly] Eeyup.
I can't believe she witnessed our family fallin' apart like this. [sighs] I can't believe I was arguin' with you so much that I tore the wheel right off the raft. It's like I wasn't myself at all.
Aw, that wasn't your fault. My stubborn streak got a hold of me somethin' fierce. Should've let you take the wheel long a'fore that.
It was my fault the map got all wet...
I was the pony who—
Now, now, Big Mac, you gotta know we forgive you for packin' the jalopy so much that it collapsed. You was just as eager to please Pinkie Pie like the rest of us.
Everypony, I think we have to let Pinkie Pie know that even if she does discover that she's an Apple, she does not have to feel obliged to consider herself one.
Sure as applesauce.
Are you kidding me?! You guys are the best family ever!
How can you say that? We started out as one big unit, and now look at us.
Yeah! Now look at you! You're all here still in one big unit, loving each other and owning up to what went wrong! You never gave up, even when things got tough!
She does make a pretty good point.
You aren't just family, you're best friends! And I wanna be an Apple more than ever!
And we want you to be one too!
Now that's how you run an errand.
Hello!
Hello yourself!
You must be Goldie Delicious. So nice to meet you.
Uh-huh. And who exactly are you?
We're Apples!
Well, we think we're all Apples. But we need your help finding out if Pinkie Pie here is our fourth cousin twice removed.
Well why didn't you say so? If anypony can help solve this genealogy mystery, it's me!
Gotta... get some oil... for the hinges... Alrighty then, just have to move a few things out of the way of the door. Ooh! Ah! Get off of that, Mr. Fluffy... Come on, Pooples... Come here, sweetheart... Come on in! Sorry about the mess!
Whoa!
Oh, careful now. Those belonged to your great-great-great-great uncle Apple Tart!
Well, whose was this?
Well, that was my lunch. A couple of weeks ago.
[blows dust away] [straining] This here is a complete record of, of our family tree! It's not here, or here, or, or here, or it certainly isn't here, is it...? Oh, here it is! ...Oh, dear.
'Oh, dear'? What is it?
Am I not an Apple after all?
Well, that's just it. I don't know. The page is all smudged. I sure am sorry, but I don't think I can help you out after all.
Don't be sorry, it's okay. I'm just a little disappointed that I'll never know for sure if I'm a part of this family.
Well, I know for sure!
What do you mean? You can't know!
I can know for sure that it doesn't matter what the book says or doesn't say. After all you've been through with us and all you've put up with, it's obvious you're an Apple to the core!
Darn tootin'!
Yes siree!
Eeyup!
Ooh! Say 'best family hug ever'!
Best family hug ever!
Thanks again for the wagon, Goldie! We'll see you soon!
Y'all sure you don't want to take any of these Apple family heirlooms home with you?
Nnope.
We're Apples forever, Apples together We're family, but so much more No matter what comes, we will face the weather We're Apples to the core!
Eeyup!
Twilight agreed this was definitely an experience worth puttin' in the journal. Think I'll write about how bein' a good family isn't about bein' perfect as much as it is about bein' able to get through the rough patches together. About bein' able to forgive each other for mistakes.
Don't forget to mention how really good friends can also feel like your family.
Eeyup.
You know what? Maybe I should write it. I'm good at makin' things sound excitin'.
I have a history of excellent storytellin'. I should probably do it— Hey! Where in the haystack do you think you're goin' with that there pen?!
Alright, ponies, listen up!
We're all ears. Right, Bulk Biceps?
[kissing noises] [grunts] Nuh-uh! I'm all muscles! Yeah!
I like your attitude, Bulk Biceps, but it's gonna take more than muscles and Yeah!s to get us to the Equestria Games! We are the Aerial Relay team, and it's up to the three of us to make sure that we qualify at the tryouts. And do I need to remind you how much I - I mean, Ponyville, heh – wants to qualify and make it to the Games?
I remember. I really, really, really want to qualify for you and Ponyville.
Bring it on!
Gimme a 'P' for 'Ponyville'!
[through megaphone] P, Ponyville!
P!
Just make sure you have one ready for when we qualify for the Aerial Relay.
And after that, for when we win gold medals in the Equestria Games!
Not so fast! If you're gonna be good, you're gonna be better with some of my apple brown bettys in ya. They're perfect.
'P' is for 'perfect'!
Alright, team! Show me what you got! Put some bend into those knees! Flap those wings! And I want to see all four hooves off the ground on the count of three! [beat] [quickly] One two three!
Don't forget to breathe while you're up there!
'P' is for, uhh... 'pain'?
Good luck, Rainbow Dash! Sorry we couldn't fly with you on the Aerial Relay, but the air sprinters needed us too.
Too bad we can only compete in one event. [sighs] But, rules are rules.
Good luck! [to Rainbow Dash] It was nice of you to be part of the team that doesn't have... uh... the strongest flyers.
Nothing nice about it. I know that I can pick up the slack for anypony. With me on the team, we'll qualify. I'm sure of it.
Ponyville is very lucky to have you.
Yeah, I'm pretty awesome.
[straining] [gasping] I am so proud to be representing Ponyville. [straining] Oh, it's such an honor to even try out for the Games. I just hope I don't let anypony down.
We'll make them proud!
'P' is for 'proud'! We're gonna be the best fans anypony has ever seen!
Ooh. Can't wait to see what everypony else is wearing, even though I am absolutely sure they won't be better than the Ponyville uniforms I'm designing for the Equestria Games.
And we will make it to the Games once everypony carbo-loads on my apple brown bettys.
I can't wait!
There's Rainbow Dash! She's an awesome flyer!
I heard that she's flying the last third of the relay, which means everypony else is gonna have to be way ahead to beat her!
Oh, the Wonderbolts!
I hear they're flying for Cloudsdale.
Then Cloudsdale will definitely qualify. They're the best flyers ever.
And the game is on!
Hah, nice to see there's some real competition here!
Two more days of practice, then we'll see you in the air, Rainbow Dash! If you're lucky.
[sighs] The Wonderbolts know a winner when they see one, and we'll be winners just as soon as we practice! Right team?
Right.
Yeah!
And, um, I'm with her! Hooray!
Give us some clouds! Give us some dale! And what do you get? Cloudsdale! Woo-hoo!
[gasps] Where can I get pompoms like those?!
So, do I need to remind you of what our goal is here?
Uh, maybe?
We want to qualify! We need to be one of the first four teams to cross the finish line! Bulk Biceps, you're the first flyer, so let me see you flap it!
What the?
Sorry! Got the idea from them, but...
Hooves down! Cakes up!
...It looks like they got better aim.
Okay, the passing of the baton needs to be seamless. You shouldn't miss a wing beat or drop a hair in altitude! And whatever you do, don't let go of it!
Are you really, really, really sure you're ready? I mean, I don't want to take it if you're not super sure.
Ready!
Ponyville could do so much better. I'll be back with a freshly painted one in no time!
We were using that! And it's not like anypony else has color-coordinated horseshoes or anything!
[sighs] I guess some ponies do.
Some ponies do what?
[sighs] Have a better chance of qualifying and going to the Equestria Games than others.
Watch and learn. The Cloudsdales are Wonderbolts, and Wonderbolts are the best flyers there are. And my personal heroes. So, maybe you can learn something.
Please learn something?
C'mon, Soarin, pick up the pace! You can do better than that!
I sure hope so.
Practice, practice, yay, practice!
Whoa!
Whooaaaa!
Aaaaah! Help!
Gotcha!
Awe-some!
As good as any Wonderbolt!
Oh, Rainbow Dash, I'm just so proud of you. You scooped Soarin out of the sky and brought him down to the ground and now, now he's okay. At least, I hope he's okay. [to Soarin] Are you okay?
Uh, my wing hurts, but I-I'm sure it'll be okay by the competition.
Ah, it was nothin'. But, if you feel like talking about how great I am, don't let me stop you!
'P' is for Rainbow Dash!
[whispering] Um, 'Rainbow Dash' actually starts with an 'R'.
Never mind!
Tough break to lose a teammate right before the tryouts.
You know, you grew up in Cloudsdale.
So that means you could fly with us.
Fly?
Uh, we mean practice. You could practice with us until Soarin's better.
What do you say? Wanna be our third?
Uh, I don't know. My team really needs me to be at my best in order to qualify. Don't wanna be too worn out by the time the race comes around.
We put you through some pretty intense workouts at the Wonderbolt Academy and you handled those just fine.
Heh, I did kick some major tail at the Academy... but I don't know how my teammates will feel about me practicing with the competition.
Who says they need to know? Think about it, Rainbow Dash! This is your chance to fly with the winners!
Alright, I'll do it.
[chuckles] Wise decision, Rainbow Dash.
Awesome!
Whinny, ponies, whinny! Fly on, fly on, fly on!
Come on, Bulk Biceps, you can do it!
Um... I'm ready to take the horseshoe, if you want me to.
Nnnngh...
[yelps] Oof!
You, uh, keep doing your wing-ups. I'm just gonna get some, uh, water.
[laughs] Yeah!
Too much?
It's not easy practicing with two teams, is it?
[spit-take] You... know? Does anypony else?
No. They're too busy practicing to wonder why you keep disappearing.
Well, I've seen the other teams practicing and we're still gonna qualify. I can fly fast enough to make up the distance.
It just seems like one of the teams you're practicing with needs a little more help than the other one.
But it's so much more fun working out with the winners than... um... the non-winners. Besides, Ponyville will still qualify.
Rainbow Dash, you got a minute?
Uh, sure.
You could really be an asset to our team, so... we want you to join the Cloudsdale team. Permanently.
It looks like Soarin's wing won't heal in time for the trials. We want you to fly with us.
Of course, this means you won't be able to fly for Ponyville, but let's face it. Even with you on their team, their chances of qualifying for the Games-
Ow!
-are pretty slim.
So, what's it gonna be?
Well, I...
Take some time to think about it.
They want me to fly with them! It's like a dream come true!
If you fly for Cloudsdale, Pinkie Pie won't have anypony to cheer for. Rarity's uniforms will never be seen. And Applejack will have slaved over those apple brown bettys for nothing.
Oh, but I really wanna fly with the best team! What would you do?
I think this is a decision you have to make on your own. The race is tomorrow, so you'd better make it soon.
[exaggerated groaning] Woe is me! Oooh!
What's happened?
Urgh, I've hurt my hoof...
All of them?
I, uh, tripped on a-a foam hoof and landed on a... [mumbles, near unintelligible] pokey stick coming out of the ground...
[growls] If I get my hooves on that [matching unintelligible gibberish], it'll be in big trouble!
There is no way I can fly now.
Do you think you'll be better by tryouts?
[exaggerated groaning] I'll be lucky if I ever fly again! [sighs] I just need a little rest.
Oh, don't worry, Rainbow Dash. We'll take care of you... or, at least, somepony will. Like, a medic or-or a doctor, or a nurse.
So, the medic pony isn't sure what's wrong with you.
Everything! Absolutely everything!
This'll cure everythin' that ails ya!
[with mouth full] Thank you. I couldn't have done that on my own.
Nothing says 'get better' like a little medical pizazz! Silk slings and a glitter bandage?
That might help.
And how is our patient doing?
I've been better.
We just wanted to let you know that we're so sorry you're hurt, but you shouldn't worry a bit about not being able to be in the tryouts. We'll be alright. We even have a replacement. We're so, so sorry that you can't compete. We all know how much you love to fly. And we promise-
Cross our hearts!
...That if we qualify and make it to the Equestria Games and all win gold medals, you can have ours, because we know how much a gold medal means to you.
Thanks...
[clears throat] I think Rainbow Dash might need to rest some more.
Don't forget your bettys!
You know, choosing not to choose isn't really a decision.
You sure have nice friends. Nopony's been by to visit me. Eh, too busy practicing, I guess.
Well, hopefully your wing will be better soon.
Oh, it's fine. I-I'm just keeping it warm in case my team wants me back.
What do you mean, 'wants you back'? Spitfire and Fleetfoot told me that you were still too injured to fly!
And they told me that they were worried I wouldn't be one hundred percent by the tryouts, so they were going with somepony else!
That somepony else was me! Until, uh, well, until I got hurt, that is.
So, [sighs] I guess we're all out of luck. Cloudsdale won't qualify without three fliers, and Ponyville won't qualify without you. Too bad...
Even with Rainbow Dash's replacement, I don't think we're gonna qualify. No offense.
Gah! What am I gonna do with all these now?!
Uh, what were you gonna do with them before?
[sighs] Maybe my Equestria Games uniforms will still be in style next year. I mean, I am pretty fashion-forward.
Is that Rainbow Dash... walking?
Does... this mean you're feeling better?
I-I feel great, because... I was never hurt in the first place.
I faked my injury so that I wouldn't have to choose between flying for Ponyville or Cloudsdale. I wanted to fly with you both, and the decision was too hard!
Oh, Rainbow Dash, you don't have to choose us. I know you love to win, and you should go with the team that surely will.
I know now who I should've been loyal to.
Good choice. Always stick with the winners.
Ponyville. Because it's not just where I live, but it's where my friends are. The ponies who really care about me, whether I can help them win a race or not.
Are you sure that's the right decision?
You lied to me about Soarin's wing just so you could get a better flyer! You may be a winning team, but you're still not the kind of team I wanna be a part of.
Huh. Rainbow Dash, you are something. Saw it at the Academy, seeing it again here. We could learn a lot from a competitor like you.
Think we already have.
Ready to fly?
Really?
Never should've lied and tried to replace you to begin with.
[gasps] Go, Cloudsdale!
Come on, Ponyville relay team! We've got a race to get ready for!
Yeah!
Come on, Ponyville! You can do it!
Go, Fluttershy! Woo-hoo!
Qualify, Ponyville! Qualify, Ponyville!
Woo-hoo! Go, Rainbow Dash!
Ponyville qualifies!
Yeah!
Yeah!
Woo-hoo!
Equestria Games, here we come!
Oh, I can't deny it. I love to win! But if I ever gotta choose between winning and being loyal to my friends, I'm always gonna choose my friends. 'Cause as much as I love winning, I love them waaaaay more.
Mail's here!
Please be a yes, please be a yes, please be a yes... Yes! She can make it, she can make it!
Going out on a limb here, but I'm guessing that Princess Cadance said she can come this weekend!
I'm finally gonna get to spend some quality time with my sister-in-law! This is the best news ever!
Um, so sorry for barging in like this... but I'm so excited, I just couldn't wait to tell somepony! The Equestrian Society for the Preservation of Rare Creatures have given me permission to observe the rarest, tiniest, most adorable magical creatures in all of Equestria – the Breezies!
Wow, Fluttershy, that's fantastic!
Oh, it's not just fantastic; it just might be the best news ever!
I just got the most incredible mail anypony's ever received in all of recorded pony postal history! It's a flyer about a one-day sale on used patio furniture! Aah! Could this day get any better? Woo-hoo!
Here's a wrap, in case it gets cold.
And I packed you a basket of nice fresh apples in case you get hungry.
Have a great time!
Oh, I will. And I hope you have fun with Cadance.
All aboard!
Goodbye! Goodbye, everypony!
Fluttershy! I'll never forget youuuuuuu! [beat] Ooh, something floaty! La-la-la-la-la!
Oh, I'm a bit nervous about Cadance's visit!
What could you be nervous about, Twilight? Cadance just loves you to pieces!
I know, but I really want her visit to go without a hitch!
Oh, why wouldn't it?
Well, the last three times we've seen each other haven't exactly been worry-free.
The fate of Equestria has hung in the balance during most of your visits with her.
Exactly. Cadance and I haven't really had a chance to just enjoy being friends again. Which is why it is so important that this visit be about the two of us having some real quality time together.
I'm guessin' you've got a plan that'll keep it that way.
The timing couldn't be more perfect. For one day only, right here in Ponyville, the Star Swirl the Bearded Traveling Museum! Cadance and I can spend the whole day looking at Star Swirl the Bearded artifacts!
Sounds like a perfect drama-free way to spend the day with Cadance.
Not counting the drama surrounding which of the bells from his cloak they've chosen to put on display. Spoiler alert: it's this one!
[hacks] Uh, sorry. Something in my throat... like a big ball of 'lame'!
I think it sounds delightful.
Yup, definitely sounds like you two will have some real quality time together.
Exactly. Just quiet time.
Your Highness.
Your Highness.
I'm teasing, Twilight. We're sisters-in-law. We don't have to be so formal.
Knowing you, you've made some plans.
Boy, have I. Hang on just one second. [to rest of main cast] You guys-
Now, now, don't you worry about a thing! We will make sure that nothing – but nothing – interferes with your visit.
Go on, have a hootenanny with your kinfolk.
You really are the best friends a pony could ever have. Coming, Cadance!
[sighs] Two sisters-in-law bonding. Well, I for one am gonna make sure that nothing spoils their day!
What is that thing?
Whatever it is... duuuck!!!
Rarity, that doesn't look anything like a duck!
What is that?
[sniffing] No, not a "what", but a "who", dear.
Oh, no... That sounds like...
[sneezes] [sniffs] Oh...
Applejack, Pinkie Pie, Discord!
What in tarnation are you doin' here? And why the jumpin' June bugs are you blue?
More like a shade of cerulean, to be precise.
Whatever color you are is the color of trouble!
What are you, sick or somethin'?
Well, of course I'm sick. The blue skin? These sneezes? Could somebody find me a fainting couch?
What?
If you're so 'sick', why have you come here instead of, y'know, staying home in bed and getting over your weird illness?
[sneezes] [blows nose] Because this condition has left me helpless, simply helpless! Why, I can barely lift a spoon.
I came to find the one pony who truly understands me and could nurse me back to health. Where is that dear, sweet Fluttershy? I need attention! I need some care! I need-
You need to chill. Fluttershy's out.
Oh, of course, her trip to see the Breezies. Ah, yes, I had forgotten that was today.
How do you know about her trip?
Well, she told me about it in her last letter.
You and Fluttershy write each other letters?
Well, of course we do! We're friends! It's just such a shame that today of all days is when I really need her. Oh, well, I know what to do.
Good thinking. Head on home, put your feet up. I'm sure eventually you'll have the strength to make yourself soup or something...
Oh, no-no-no-no-no-no! I mean, while she's gone, you ponies can take care of me! Isn't that what friends are for, taking care of each other? [laughs] Let the healing begin!
Not it!
Don't you worry, Discord! I'll give you cuddles, and read you stories, and tell you all about me! I was born on a Tuesday-
We did?
I so hope you don't mind, Pinkie Pie.
Well, as a matter of fact, I most certainly- Hey! Who keeps throwing away these perfectly good balloons?
[hushed] That joker's up to something, and whatever it is, we're gonna keep it as far away from Twilight and Princess Cadance as possible.
[hushed] You're right. We promised we wouldn't let anything ruin their visit... although I do so wish that "anything" had turned out to be something else!
Did I hear you two talking about Princess Cadance's visit with Princess Twilight?
Maybe.
Fluttershy had mentioned that those two were getting together today. Mm-hm. How wonderful for them both. It is so rare that those two get to see one another. I don't know about you, but I sometimes wonder how close they could actually be. All those years apart before being reunited?
They're plenty close.
And if they're not, this rare opportunity to focus on their friendship will certainly bring them closer. Unless...
Don't even think about it! They mustn't be disturbed!
Disturb them? I wouldn't dream of it. Not when I have two such dear friends of my own who have already offered to take care of me. And at such peril! This flu of mine is highly- [snorts] [sneezes] contagious.
A whole day to celebrate Star Swirl the Bearded. What could be better?
Absolutely nothing. [gasps] Is that the candlestick he used to light the way when he was exploring the caverns of Maretania?
It sure is!
Oh, I can't believe I'm getting to see it in real life!
Discord! What are you doing here?!
Oh, dear, dear Princesses, I'm sorry to say that I'm sick. [hacks] Blue flu.
Blue flu?
Magic health bubble.
Good thinking.
Indeed. How would Twilight nurse me back to health if she were sick too? You will be letting me stay at your place until I'm all better, won't you?
Stay? With me?! Uh, now is not really the best time, though I'm sure you already knew that...
But taking in the sick and the desperate - isn't that what Fluttershy would do? Isn't 'helping' something that friends do for friends? Unless, of course, you're really saying that you're not my friend.
[through gritted teeth] No, that is not what I'm saying.
Oh, how elated I am to hear that. Shall the three of us head back to your place? I don't want to get anypony else sick.
[sighs] Guess we don't have much choice.
Carry me?
It isn't far. I think you can manage.
Oh, poo.
Need anything else?
Just knowing that I have a good friend like you to take care of me has made me feel better already. I'll be fine here on my own. Oh, just before you go, just a little small request.
It's going to be fine. We'll just get him what he wants and be back to the exhibit in no time. What was it that you needed?
A little glass of water please A fresh pressed hanky if I sneeze Some tea with honey from the bees Whenever you can brew it
I'll get your tea.
And while I get a little rest A teeny tiny small request Some codfish oil for my chest Poured from a crystal cruet
A crystal cruet?
[singing faster] My goodness, I'm a nincompoop Because I fear I've got the croup I need a vat of pumpkin soup And scarves made out of zinnias
Did I say zinnias? I meant silk Or something shiny of that ilk And then I'll need some nice warm milk And pastries from Abyssinia
And since my stomach's feeling crummy Why not give my aching tummy Something soothing, something yummy Piled up with noodles?
Add a slice of homemade rye With stacks of Swiss way up high Served with sides of sweet mince pie More basil; I need oodles!
Anything else?
I'll be grateful for your charity Until the bitter end Because I've heard that tenderness Is what you lend an ailing friend
Tenderness, isn't that right, friend?
Right, but—
So, who's ready for my big reprise?
I'd like that glass of water please Some magic spell to cure disease A firm "gesundhoof" when I sneeze A fresh bouquet of roses
Some lozenges will soon appease My wheezing when I start to sneeze A wig to keep me from the breeze And blankets for my toes-es
Take tweezers out of my valise And then massage my knobby knees A bowl of peas, some extra cheese A cuddle with a Pekingese A singing harp who's named Louise A goat on skis, a new trapeze And more and more and more and more of these
And just because I oughta...
Make sure I'm drinking in the right Amount of fluids day and night I wish I may, I wish I might Have just one little thing Oh, would you please finally bring Me that tiny glass Of water?!!
Alright, this is ridiculous!
How did you even catch this flu?
Inadequate hoof and claw washing?
There must be some way to just cure you! There has to be a spell or remedy in one of my books!
There is one way...
And you didn't think to mention it earlier?
Slipped my mind. On a hill at the very edge of Equestria, there grows an exquisite magic flower. Pick the flower as it drops its petals at sunset. Then you can make a magical soothing elixir to cure the blue flu.
I suppose you have a good reason you didn't bother to get this flower as soon as you realized you were sick?
Well, I couldn't travel that far in my condition. By the time I got there, I'd be too weak to even attempt to retrieve the flower.
So where exactly are Cadance and I headed?
Well, [clears throat] you'll want to head north, turn left, th— Oh... You know, it'd be much easier if I took you there myself.
I thought you were in no condition to travel.
Doing okay there?
To be honest, I'm a little out of practice when it comes to flying.
Well, then lucky for you. We're here.
It's just at the top of that hill.
I'm really sorry about this. All I wanted was to have some peaceful quality time together.
I know, I was looking forward to it too.
This is the top. But where is that flower? Oh. Come on, if we hurry, we can still have some time together.
One... last... pull!
Phew! Let's get Discord and this flower back home, then all our problems are solved-
What in Equestria?!
Twilight! Help!
Get your coils off my sister-in-law!
Let go of my sister-in-law!
Thanks!
Don't thank me yet!
Just... a little... more!
And for good measure...!
[panting] Are you okay?
[panting] Yes. Better than okay actually.
Then let's get Discord back to Ponyville, make that elixir, and finally get a chance to spend some quality time together.
You... were... faking?!
I was! But I had a very good reason.
We're listening.
Well, I was in my thinking tree – that's where I do most of my really deep thinking – I was there, and I said to myself, I said, "Discord, your friend Twilight says that she's your pal, but she never writes and she never pops in for a visit."
I don't even know where you li-
"Now that she's a princess, maybe she's decided that she's too good for you."
I have never considered myself t-
But how was I supposed to know for sure that I'm truly still friends with one of the most important ponies around?
I'm not more-
By seeing if you would go to the ends of Equestria for me, of course. Which you did, literally. Congratulations, Twilight, you passed my friendship test!
Why the angry eyes? You love passing tests. It's not because my little exam put a damper on your visit with Princess Cadance, is it? Made it so that there was no time for you two to focus on your friendship?
You didn't put a damper on our visit at all.
Spending the day at the Star Swirl the Bearded exhibit would've been more relaxing, but to be honest, relaxation is the last thing I need.
It is?
Don't get me wrong. Life in the Crystal Empire is wonderful, but it's become a little... predictable. I enjoy a little excitement now and then. Getting to face all these challenges today was just what I needed. And facing them with you just made me realize even more how lucky I am to have somepony like you as a friend. We may not see each other very often, but I know you'll always be there when I need you. Just like she was there for you, Discord.
Yes, she's a real sweetheart. We're all so lucky to have her in our lives.
What in the world?!
I think it's pretty clear that my visit with Cadance didn't go quite the way I expected. But in the end, I realized that when you're with a good friend, even the most chaotic day can end up being a great experience that brings you closer. Wouldn't you agree, Discord?
[snorts] Yes, Twilight.
I don't wanna go sayin' you got what you deserved...
Well, I have no trouble saying it. You got what you deserved!
Now, now, he's learned his lesson. Isn't that right, my little patient?
I'm so glad that you're back from your trip, Fluttershy. Just your presence here is making me feel so much better. I was just wondering, could I trouble you for just one more thing?
No!
What? I was simply going to ask for a teeny, tiny glass of water.
Well, Boneless. Looks like our work here is done.
Yep, those ponies never partied so hard. Thanks to me: Cheese. Cheese Sandwich.
Woo-hoo-hoo! That was a doozy! Well, Boneless. Looks like our next party is gonna be in... Ponyville.
Every single day there's something new you can plan for Every single day there's something wonderful to do But nothing makes me happy like a day that I can say "Today I planned a party, and it's just for you!"
How's it going today, Pinkie?
Great, thanks! Got any streamers today?
[chuckles] You betcha! Big party planned?
Don't you know it!
Don't have much time to gather all the things I need If I'm really gonna make this party fly For today's another day that all of Ponyville will say
There goes the super party pony Pinkie Pie!
[Mr. and Mrs. Cake] She planned our first foal shower where we played all sorts of games Having so much fun as we chose Pound and Pumpkin's names
She planned my cute-ceañera my dad made me, I won't lie I demanded all the best, I suppose she passed the test Sure it was pretty good all thanks to Pinkie Pie
Thanks, I guess?
What color paints do you need?
I'm gonna need the full rainbow!
A paintbrush too?
Yes, if you please!
And what from me?
Your biggest banner! This party's gonna be the best!
Haha I don't doubt it!
Every single day there's something new we can plan for Every single day there's something wonderful to try But nothing makes us happy like a day that we can say "Today there'll be a party planned by Pinkie Pie!"
I don't know how she does it.
Wow, look at her go!
Oh, boy! This is gonna be good!
Go, Pinkie, go!
There's no other pony like her, no pony that could be As great! (As great!) As fun! (As fun!) As our super party pony Pinkie!
Ooh, I am so, so, SO excited because today I'm planning the birthday bash of... Rainbow Dash!
Yeah!
Rainbow Dash.
Yes, Pinkie?
You realize that, by enlisting me as your party planner, I guarantee that this is going to be the funnest, most fantabulous, superbial party in Ponyville?
Uh...yeah? I guess.
No guesses! Parties are no picnic.
Oh, I like a nice picnic party.
Oh!
Parties. Are. Serious! And you have my certified Pinkie Party Promise that you will have the best birthday party ever!
Okay.
Great! Now, who's ready to join this super duper party pony to plan this super duper pa-rty?
I am.
Who are you, stranger?
Name's Cheese Sandwich. I plan parties.
What an amazing coincidence! I'm Pinkie Pie, and I'm planning a party!
Oh, it's no coincidence, my little pony. My cheesy sense was a-tingling, telling me a party was in the works.
A cheesy sense? Ah! Double amazing! I have a Pinkie Sense!
Yes. I sensed you did. And I happen to be the premiere party planner in all of Equestria. If there's a party in need, there I'll be. Be it wingding, hoedown, hootenanny, or shindig, I'm your pony.
A pair of party pony planners in Ponyville?! What can be more perfect?!
I'll tell you what -- making this party epic! 'Cause this isn't just any birthday. It's also the anniversary of when I moved to Ponyville!
Good heavens, Rainbow Dash. It's your "birth-iversary"!
Exactly! So what do you say, party planners?
Oh, I think we can do it!
Oh, I don't think so.
I know so! After all...
The super-duper party pony–that pony is me I always knew that was the kind of pony I would be
Me too!
Come on, ponies! Who here likes to party? Ha-ha! You do! I can tell!
When I was but a little colt, I just wanted to play
Like me!
But everypony told me, "Cheese, that fun just wastes the day"
As if!
But when I threw a party and I busted out some moves
Uh-huh!
The ponies finally saw the light and got into the groove
You know it!
The super-duper party pony–that pony is me
And me!
You'll never meet another party pony quite like Cheese!
Uh, Pinkie?
Hey, good-lookin', want some mayonnaise?
My parties are all off the hook I never plan them by the book I start out fun, then whoopsie-daisy Everybody just gets crazy!
Bored of snacks made by your mom? How about a giant party bomb? Huge piñatas filled with cake Or dive into my fruit punch lake!
Geronimo!
The super-duper party pony–that pony is me You'll never meet another party pony quite like Cheese
C'mon, kid, take it for a spin!
Golly! Thanks, mister!
Oh, when I throw a Cheese party, be sure to not be lame And miss my pie fights, wacky kites, and streamers in your mane Fizzy drinks, Hawaiian shirts, and brie fondue delight You know that with Cheese Sandwich, you'll be partying all night!
C'mon, everypony! Let's party down with Cheese!
You're really a certified party pony?
That's right! That's my guarantee!
The super-duper party pony–that pony is me-e-e-e-e
But what about the super party pony named Pinkie...?
[indistinct] Thanks buddy! You're gonna love this party! Hey kid, have a streamer, on me!
Yeah! Hah, now that's what I'm talking about! I'm so stoked you're here, Cheese Sandwich!
Yeah. You sure did come on the right day.
[sighs] Your party sounds simply divine.
We're so lucky to have you here.
Just doing my job, little fillies.
I mean, Pinkie Pie's parties are fun and sweet and all, but now this party's gonna be--
Epic?
You said it! Oh, yeah!
Feels gouda!
Uh, heh, no offense, Pinkie.
My birth-iversary's already looking way cooler! You are my kind of party pony, Cheese Sandwich.
[chuckles] You got that right, Rainbow Dash. All right, party ponies, I've got some planning to do!
Pinkie! Aren't you gonna help Cheese Sandwich plan the party?
That's okay. [chuckles nervously] He obviously has what it takes to do it all by himself. Heh.
Really?
Yes, indeedy! [chuckles nervously] After all, if Cheese really is the super duperiest partying-est pony of them all, maybe that means... I'm... not.
For all my life, all I've wanted to do Was make my friends want to smile true But maybe I was wrong And Pinkie Pie shouldn't plan parties at all
I'll try to get up on my hooves And try a different task I'll find something new to do There's gotta be more to me than planning a party or two
I put away my party cannon, I deflated all my balloons The bubbles all burst, now what is next for you? For you...
Oh, my first party ever. My whole family was there. And that's Twilight's welcome-to-Ponyville party. She didn't even expect that one. [giggles] Oh, look at Gummy! He just looks so excited for this birthday party! Hmm. Shining Armor and Cadance's wedding sure was special, especially once I got a hold of the music.
Oh, look at those happy faces All the parties that I had thrown I made them laugh, had such a blast A smile that's all their own They loved seeing me, the real Pinkie Show them the time of their life like they've never known Like they've never kno-o-own
I've got to get back out there, have to show them that I've tried For there's only one great party pony -- that is Pinkie Pie Won't let Cheese Sandwich beat me, won't let him get me down For I am Pinkie, the bestest party pony around!
Well, they don't call him the super duper party planner for nothin'.
That's it! This pony has gotta get her title back! And I know just what to do!
Totally awesome!
Huh. Best I've ever seen.
I can't believe it!
Freeze, Cheese! I challenge you... to a goof off!
Oh, no! Not a goof off!
[whispering] What's a goof off?
I have no idea, hehe.
This Cheese has stood alone a long time, Pinkie Pie. You think you can out-goof me?
Oh, I don't think so. I know so! And the stakes are high, Cheese Sandwich. Whoever wins will be dubbed the ultimate super duper party pony and headline the Rainbow Dash birth-iversary bash!
And the loser?
Doesn't!
So, are you in, Cheese? Or are you... boneless?
Nopony calls me boneless. Right, Boneless?
Then the goof off is on for high noon!
Um, Pinkie? It's already 3 o'clock.
Oh. Oh, well then. Make it 3:10 to goof off!
All right, everypony. According to my official goof off rulebook...
She actually has a goof off rulebook?
Are you kidding? Twilight can find a rulebook for everything!
Shhh.
The two competitors have free range to goof about -- be it by singing, dancing, playing, prancing, joking, or performing -- to make the judge chortle, chuckle, giggle, guffaw, hoot and holler, whoop it up, and party down.
The funnier, sillier, wilder, and goofier, the better. Rainbow Dash, since the winner will be headlining your party, you are the judge.
Heh. Big tense competition on my birth-iversary. What could be better?
Cheese Sandwich, Pinkie Pie, are you ready?
I was born ready!
I was ready before I was born!
Then... Let the goofing begin!
It's your birthday party, a very special day I've got a song, it won't take long, I just wanted to say Happy, happy, happy, happy Happy, happy, happy, happy Happy, happy, happy, happy birthday to you!
If you wanna be the life of the party But you're feeling just a little uptight Call the doctor, beg and plead "Doctor, tell me what I need" Try to put a little cheese in your knees!
Bubbles and balloons, bubbles and balloons What's a birthday party without bubbles and balloons? Star-shaped or trapezoid, look what I can do Only Pinkie Pie can make a bubble shaped like you!
Just let yourself go floppy, for now this is your chance Pretend you have no bones and do the rubber chicken dance!
Hit it, Boneless!
Cooler than a rubber chicken and tastier than cake Come on, you, let's party down and do the Gummy shake!
Hit it, Gummy! Uh-huh! You know it! Shake it!
'Cause I like to make you smile, smile, smile Yes I do It fills my heart with sunshine all the while Yes it does 'Cause all I really need's a smile, smile, smile From these happy friends of mine
That's my song!
What do you mean? I have no idea what you're talking about.
THAT'S IT!
Roll out the party cannon When you hear the party cannon song Ka-BOOM!
Why should you compromise? Try this one on for size 'Cause nothing quite says cheer like the ringing in your ear Of the cheese supreme cannonball surprise!
¡Dale, dale, dale No pierdas el tino! Porque si lo pierdes ¡Pierdes el camino!
[gasps] Rainbow's not having the best party ever! I... I broke the Pinkie Party Promise! Stop! The goof off is off!
But I haven't named a winner.
You don't have to. I forfeit. Which means... Cheese Sandwich wins.
[laughs] [sighs] ...I do?
Yes. You get to headline Rainbow Dash's party.
But, what about you, Pinkie?
I... [sniffles] I don't.
Pinkie, wait! I'm sorry I got all swept away by Cheese Sandwich.
We all are.
[sighs] Sorry, Pinkie.
No. I'm sorry I let my pride get in the way of you having the best birth-iversary ever. Cheese Sandwich really is a super duper party planner, and he'll be a terrific headliner. I should've been a big enough pony to admit that and let you have your day.
But don't you get it? You're both super duper party ponies. Sure, Cheese Sandwich is a great guest party pony, but you're Ponyville's permanent party pony. Nopony could ever take your place, and we could never have a party without you.
Rainbow Dash is right. I never meant to take your place in Ponyville. I just wanted to show you what a great party pony I am, Pinkie.
Why me?
Well...
I fear I told a little fib about my pony past I hope that when you hear the truth, you will not be aghast I wasn't quite the super party pony like I claimed The fact is that I was so shy, nopony knew my name
I stumbled into Ponyville one afternoon by chance And found the biggest ever celebration party dance Everything was perfect, cheer was filling up the place And I saw that everypony had a smile upon their face
I vowed that day to change my life, the past I did set free For now Cheese Sandwich was a party pony full of glee A super duper party pony -- that's what I became I traveled all Equestria, and all did know my name
But that never would have happened on my own, I'll tell you why For the one who threw that party, it was you, Pinkie Pie
Me?
Yes!
Hah, really?!
Really!
So I was the pony that threw the awesomely spectacular party that inspired you to become an awesome spectacular party thrower?
Swear on Camembert!
Enough with the warm fuzzy stuff, you two. It's my birth-iversary, and you gotta throw me a bash!
Yeah!
Let's go!
Super duper party ponies -- that is me and you A party thrown by one is good, but not as great as two Come on and let's join forces, have twice the expertise Now let's all go to the party planned by Pinkie Pie and Cheese!
All right, everypony! We are here to celebrate the birthday...
...and anniversary...
...of Rainbow Dash!
Hey, everypony! Who's ready to get their party on?! Hit it!
Get your hooves up, party's starting out right now Everypony, everypony get down Time to make a wish, better make it right now It's been a year and today is your birthday party
Make a wish, it's your birthday Make a wish, it's your birthday party Make a wish, it's your birthday Make a wish, it's your birthday party
Cheese Sandwich! Oh, I gotta tell ya, you and Pinkie have totally made this the best birthday/anniversary super combo ever! Hah, it's totally--
Epic?
Yeah, it is!
That's all I needed to hear, little filly. Just a little memento of my visit.
You're giving me your special rubber chicken friend?
Oh, he's not the only one. Well, Boneless Two, another job well done. But it's time we mosey along. Another town, another party.
I never did get that pony's name.
Cheese Sandwich!
[giggles] Oh, yeah!
Wow! I can't believe how many ponies showed up!
I can! I mean, finding out who the Ponyville Days pony of ceremonies is is a pretty big deal!
I didn't know Granny Smith was on the selection committee.
Of course she is. Ponyville Days celebrates the founding of Ponyville, and she was right there.
I'm glad the committee didn't automatically pick me so everypony gets a chance to see how great being me actually is! Even though the festival's basically a party and the pony of ceremonies gets to organize the whole thing! So it'd totally make sense if they did pick me.
Shhh!
Citizens of Ponyville, this year's applicants were all exceptional, but there can only be one Ponyville Days pony of ceremonies. And that pony is...
Rarity!
Whoo-ee! All right, Rarity!
Congratulations, Rarity! Do you know what you're gonna do?
Oh, I might have a few ideas.
I'm so excited for the festival, I can hardly stand up straight!
Me too. I'm glad Rarity was picked. I know she'll add a touch of elegance to the whole thing!
Probably more than a touch!
[clears throat] [reading] This year's Ponyville Days festival, designed by Rarity, will feature various high-class events such as... a silent cider auction and tasting.
Ooooh!
A Ponyville gala in town square.
Ahhhh!
And, of course, a Ponyville fashion show.
Ooooh!
This year's Ponyville Days festival pony of ceremonies creates shimmering couture of her own design.
And the theme is... "Small Town Chic"!
Wow, Rarity. You really have put a lot of effort into this.
I'll say.
Oh, I think it's going to be magical.
[gasps] Do you really think so?
Are you kidding? I can't wait!
Oh, that's such a relief. But of course, I couldn't possibly do it all on my own. The festival is in three days!
Pinkie Pie and I can hang lights and decorations in the town square!
And I can get Sweet Apple Acres all ready for the cider tastin'.
Oh, that's just perfect! And now, Twilight, if you and Fluttershy wouldn't mind helping with the fashion show...
Of course!
I'd be honored.
I can focus on the thing I'm worried about most of all.
What?
Creating a Ponyville Days festival fantastic enough to impress... Trenderhoof!
Uh, who's Trenderhoof?
Sounds like somepony has a little bit of a crush.
Thank you ever so much for joining me, Twilight. I don't think I could have met Trenderhoof on my own!
It's no problem, but you shouldn't be nervous about meeting him.
Is that him? Is he here? Twilight, is he there?
Uhh... I'm not sure.
You don't suppose he's decided not to come? Twilight, I don't see him! What if he doesn't arrive? The whole festival will be a disaster! Twilight, where is he?!
[clears throat] Sorry.
Rarity, you have to get a hold of yourself. I mean, you haven't even met him yet!
What's wrong?
Shh! [hushed, quickly] It's him, it's him, is it him? Is it him? It's him, he's here, he's here!
Well, go up and talk to him!
Please, call me 'Trend'.
And over here will be the climax of the festival, the Ponyville Days gala! Music, dancing! [laughs nervously] And of course a locally sourced menu of delicious treats.
Reminds me of the "Spring Fling meets Manehattan Wedding" I wrote about in Gallop & Prance.
Exactly! I, I can't even describe how much your work has influenced me!
And finally, Sweet Apple Acres. Ponyville's core, heh-heh, so to speak, where our quaint little hamlet began.
Oh, breathtaking! I've heard about it of course, but to see it in vérité, to stand on the soil of a working farm... You can really feel the authenticity.
Oh, yes, uh, they, they really do grow apples here.
Thank you, Rarity. Thank you for bringing me here. This farm is truly something special.
Oh, I had planned to transform it into an elegant country inn for the festival... but now I see just how special it is au naturel.
Au naturel indeed.
Who... is... that?
Who? Applejack? Ahem! Why are you staring at her like that?
I've seen a lot in my travels, but I've never beheld such beauty. Applejack... The pony of my dreams...
Rarity? Rarity! Hello?
I brought my cider-tasting cup. Are you ready to go try the samples?
[sobbing throughout] What's the point?!
Rarity, what's wrong?
Nothing!
Is it something I said?
He doesn't like me.
What?
He doesn't like me.
Rarity, I can't hear what you're—
He doesn't like me because he has a crush on Applejack, even though I've had a crush on him ever since the beginning of time, and it's not fair!
Trenderhoof doesn't like you? That's ridiculous!
Oh, Spike, how could you ever know what it's like to be totally obsessed with a pony only to find out they're obsessed with somepony else?
I mean, what could Applejack possibly have that I don't?!
I 'unno.
Hmm...
You know, I have such respect for the work ethic of Earth ponies.
Uh, gee, thanks. Granny Smith always said, "Pick an apple a day and keep trouble away."
How many varieties of apples do you think there are?
Uh, on the farm or in all of Equestria? 'Cause—
Is that a fact?
That's my thing. I take the mundane, the simple, the unappreciated, and I make it relatable.
Well, I hope you can relate to Ponyville.
Me too. But enough about me. I wanna know about you! What do apples mean to Applejack?
Look, I'm glad you're interested in Ponyville 'n' all, but I'm kinda busy with my chores. And if I can't get 'em done, there won't be a Ponyville Days festival for you to write about.
Well, that will never do!
Rarity, what are you wearin'?
What, this old thing?
Aren't you too busy plannin' the festival to keep makin' new outfits for it?
I am. But the thought of hauling apples inspired me, and I just couldn't stop myself!
Really?
If there's one thing I love, it's hauling apples!
[dreamily] I'm growing fond of it myself.
[under her breath] Maybe you two should try it sometime.
I'm feeling a tad inspired. Without farm life, there'd be such disparity These thoughts I think with great clarity Apples high to the sky She's the one of my eye That fruit-hauling pony named... Applejack!
Rarity, why do you want to plow a field?
Is it me, or could this use a splash of color? And maybe a wash!
Don't we need to check on the gala decorations?
Yes, yes, of course, but Trend obviously has a thing for farm life. If I can't convince him that I'm just as much of a farm hoof as Applejack, I'll never get him interested in the festival.
The festival. Right.
And I do appreciate your help ever so much. I couldn't do a thing without you, Spikey-poo.
Well, that's what friends are for!
Right, so. [whips reins] Come on! [grunts] Farm... thing! [sighs] Oh, how does Applejack do it?
Well, it would help if the harness was on right! What are you doin'?
I am simply lending a hoof with the chores, which I love doing ever so much.
Well if you're still interested after the festival I can teach you all about it. But right now, I need to get the plowin' done, if you don't mind.
Not at all. Ugh! Oh!
She makes it look so easy.
[dreamily] I know. Isn't she fantastic?
I really don't see what the fuss is all about.
Now, Rarity, you be careful. If you don't get the buckin' just right, you could sprain a hoof.
I am perfectly familiar with the apple-bucking process, thank you very much. But while you seem to rely on raw power, I believe a certain amount of style is required. It's really more of a dance, if you ask me. [happy 'hm'ing noises] Et voilà!
Well, your way is definitely long on style.
Thank you.
Now, if you'll all excuse me, I have some more chores to do. Inside!
Rarity, can I ask you something?
Oh, why, Trend, you can ask me anything.
I've been meaning to ask for a while, and frankly I'm sort of embarrassed. Rarity... do you think... Applejack would be my date for the festival?
Why don't you go ask her yourself?! Hmph!
Whew! Well, that was close.
If you've come to apologize, there's really no need.
What are you talkin' about?
Let's dispense with the charade, shall we?
Listen, I know you really want Trend to like you—
And he does! Despite somepony's best efforts!
I swear I don't know why he's payin' so much attention to me. And I don't know anypony who's that interested in farmin'. Not even me!
Well, maybe it's time Trend met a real country pony.
Shouldn't you be workin' on the festival instead of comin' up with new ways to impress Trend?
Oh, I'm sure you'd love that. Well, I have a new vision for the festival, [in country accent] and it's gonna be more country than the whole Apple family put together!
Um, isn't it a little late to be changing the theme?
Applejack, what's going on?
I'm too scared to guess.
[country accent] Firstly, I just want to thank you all for comin', and second, I know y'all will all adore my new festival theme!
[country accent] "Simple Ways"!
[country accent throughout] Well? What's so funny?
Rarity, that is the silliest getup I have ever seen!
It is a little funny.
Fun-nay?
[laughing] Rarity, you aren't serious, are you?
[normal voice] Well of course I'm serious– [clears throat] [back in country accent] Why wouldn't I be?
Because you would never dress like that. You like fashion and high society and fancy things.
And I can like plowin' fields and haulin' apples just as much.
But you don't!
How do you know what I like?
Because I know you.
Wail, maybe you don't know me as well as you thank.
And I suppose it's just a coincidence that Trenderhoof seemed so interested in country life, too?
I don't know what you're gittin' at!
Well then, I guess I'll just have to show you!
Be my guest! Now, if you all will excuse me, I have a hootenanny of a festival to put on.
[country accent throughout] Now, to be a model in the Simple Ways fashion show, you might think "simple" means "less is more". Well, that just ain't so. If you want to be real simple, more is more. Now, y'all go off and make yourselves look just like that. [to Spike] Who's our next model for the fashion show?
Um... Apple... Jewel?
Who the hay is that?
Is this some kind of joke?
[upper-class accent throughout] Why, Rarity, whatever would make you think I was joking?
[normal voice] Because you would never wear an ensemble like that. You like plowing fields and hauling apples—
And I can like fashion just as much.
[back in country accent] But you don't!
Well, maybe you do not know me as well as you think.
Fine. But I got a whole festival to plan, so if you're goin' to start modelin', just get on with it!
Life is a festival, and you should celebrate it by looking just like me! Because I'm a trend-setting fashionista!
Oh, is that so?
Yes, indeedy-doodle!
[gasp] Not me! My mane needs to be perfectly coiffed at all times.
Well, my mane is full of dust and split ends.
My hooves are so polished, you can see your reflection in them.
My hooves are cracked and dry from working in the fields!
I'm so fashion-forward.
I wear droopy drawers!
I smell like rosebuds.
I love being covered in mud!
[normal voice] Goodness! Your couture! Ooh, it's bad. Will somepony bring me a towel to wipe this repulsive filth from my hooves?!
[normal voice] There's the Rarity I know!
Oh, Applejack, I'm sorry I said all those things. You're a true friend who probably knows me better than I know myself. I don't know what I was thinking wearing this ridiculous outfit.
I kinda know how you feel.
Oh, but you were just trying to help me see how silly I was being. And you were right. [sighs] Besides, that gown looks just gorgeous on you. I wish I hadn't ruined it.
Thanks! It's nice, ain't it?
It's magnificent! Wherever did you get it?
Oh, it's, uh, one of yours.
I'll need three gallons of boiling water and one ounce of detergent, stat!
[clears throat] I'm moving to Ponyville! Being the most interesting pony in Equestria is exhausting. I want to leave my exotic, exciting life behind and live on a farm!
What?!
Well, that's real nice, but I sure hope you weren't thinkin' of Sweet Apple Acres.
Oh.
Uh, look, you're a fine pony, but, uh, well, I'm, uh...
I think what Applejack is trying to say is that there's something unappealing about a pony who'd change themselves so much just to impress somepony else. If somepony doesn't like you for who you are, it's their loss.
Well, this is awkward.
Not at all. In fact, I think I know just how you feel.
What do you think, Rarity? Is it too late to go back to "Small Town Chic"?
Not if I can help it!
Organizing the Ponyville Day celebration was one of the hardest things I've ever done. But I learned an important lesson. Real friends will like you for who you are, and changing yourself to impress them is no way to make new ones. And when you're as fabulous as I am, it's practically a crime!
Oh, good morning, little friends. Your singing is oh-so pretty.
Yes, it is a very beautiful day today. Certainly something worth singing about.
Oh, thank you so much. [giggles] You're too kind.
Wow!
Oh... You... um... you didn't hear me... um...
Singing in the most beautiful voice ever?!?
Uh, yeah, we did!
Wow, I've never heard you sing a solo like that before!
It was like a little slice of heaven.
With ice cream on top!
Fluttershy, I cannot believe your spectacular voice isn't part of the Pony Tones quartet!
Um, well, I—
Especially since you're having us perform for your Ponyville Pet Center fundraiser tomorrow night!
Well, you see, I—
This simply must be rectified. You must share that stunning voice at the event!
Yeah! It'll be so amazing! You'll be there on stage, basking in the hooflights! The center of attention! A shining star! Everypony staring at you, judging you, jealously noting how they could be way better than you! Why wasn't it them? Why wasn't it them? And then, when you choke, they'll turn on you, becoming a seething, angry mob, and you'll be horribly humiliated, never able to show your face in Ponyville again!
Pinkie Pie!
Don't be ridiculous!
Aw, but I'm so good at it!
[sighs] Come, Fluttershy, you will join the group, making the Pony Tones quartet the Pony Tones quintet!
No.
Pardon me?
I love the Pony Tones, I'm one of their biggest fans, but I do not want to perform with them.
Why not, Fluttershy?
Well, you see... I... I have... um... I... I have...
Spit it out!
I have... stage fright.
[gasps] Is it contagious?!
Stage fright isn't a disease, Pinkie. It just means that Fluttershy is scared to perform in front of everypony.
I'm very thankful the Pony Tones are singing at the Pet Center fundraiser, and I'm really looking forward to the performance, but I'll be watching safely from the audience.
[sighs] Well... I think it's a terrible waste of an exquisite talent, but I understand that you're not comfortable.
Thank you. Oh! Angel's right. We'd better get going. There's a lot of work to do before tomorrow's event.
Bum, bum, bum-ba-da, ba-da Bum, bum, bum-ba-da ah
Bum, bum, bum-ba-da, ba-da (Oh, ah-ah-ah-ah) Bum, bum, bum-ba-da ah (Oh, ah-ah-ah-ah)
Everypony's sayin' you should learn to express your voice But if talk doesn't seem like it's the answer
Luckily you have a choice When you find you've got the music ( Fiiiiiiiiiiiiiiind the music) Got the music in you (Rarity: Oh, you) Find you've got the music (Rarity: Fiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiind the music) Got the music in you
Woo-hoo, yeah! Rarity, you were awesome!
Uh, thank you, Spike, but this is an ensemble.
Eh, the rest of you were pretty good too.
Oh, I thought you were all amazing, Pony Tones!
Thanks, Fluttershy!
Now, Pony Tones, I want you all to rest your voices for the remainder of the day. We'll do a final run-through tomorrow before the big event, alright?
Eeyup.
Sounds great!
Oh, Rarity, the Pony Tones are really gonna make the Ponyville Pet Center fundraiser so special. Thank you so much for helping me help the animals.
Oh, yes. It is wonderful when a plan comes together without any sort of drama, isn't it?
Morning, Fluttershy!
Good morning, Pony Tones!
Actually, we're the Pony Tones minus one tone. Big Mac is inconveniently late.
Big Mac? Can you please start the song?
[croaking] Nope.
Big Mac! Did you lose your voice?
[gulps] [croaking] Eeyup.
Whatever did you do to cause this?
[croaking] Well...
[through microphone] Howdy, everypony, and welcome to the twelfth annual Ponyville turkey call!
Who will take the title this year? Will it be somepony new? Or will the turkey call champion of six years defend his title to make it lucky number seven?
We'll find out if you stop your gabbin' and get on with the gobblin'!
Alright, everypony! Let's talk turkey! Big Mac, you're up!
A...a...a turkey call? You lost your voice doing a... a turkey call?!
Now we can't perform tonight!
Wait, what? No! You have to perform! Otherwise, the fundraiser will be a disaster!
Well, we cannot perform tonight with only three voices.
Why not?
It would take rearranging all the music, and we just don't have time. I'm sorry, Fluttershy, but I have no remedy for this situation.
[gasps] Of course! A remedy! Follow me!
Hmmm.
[croaking] Ahhhh.
Hmmm.
[croaking] Ahhh—
I can cure this pony that is hoarse, but it will take a longer course.
Uh, come again?
Mm. I can mix a brew that can work just right, but it cannot heal him by tonight.
Oh, no! Ah! Where are we ever going to find a deep voice to replace Big Mac's?
Pardon me, Zecora, but this is no laughing matter! We need a bass voice for the harmonies to work! Without it, the performance will be ruined!
Please, forgive my strange elation, but I was not laughing at your situation.
Then what?
Remember when you pony folk stumbled into poison joke? Miss Fluttershy had an unusual change, deepening her vocal range.
[from Bridle Gossip, deep male voice] I don't want to talk about it.
Yes, yes! Your voice became really low, making it sound like...
[gasps] Flutterguy!
With these leaves I can mix a brew, creating the same effect on you.
Zecora, that's fantastic!
Yes! I'll do it! I'd do anything for the animals!
Why, you'd even appear on stage!
Oh. Except that. I just can't bring myself to sing on stage in front of everypony.
What if you sang not in front of everypony?
Huh?
What if Big Mac was onstage, moving his lips while you're behind the curtains singing his part? It would be just like singing in your house! Nopony would know it was you!
Even still, I just don't think I could sing in front of...
You must! For the animals!
Oh... Okay then... [gulps] Mix it up!
[hushed] Now, do it just like we practiced!
Good evening, citizens of Ponyville! I want to thank you all for coming out tonight and generously supporting the Ponyville Pet Center! Thanks to your kindness, pets are finding loving homes, and we're sure to meet our fundraising goal!
Where's Fluttershy?
Probably hidin'. You know how much that pony hates the spotlight.
So, with no further ado, please welcome the Pony Tones!
[Fluttershy (male voice)] Bum, bum, bum-ba-da, ba-da Bum, bum, bum-ba-da ah
Bum, bum, bum-ba-da, ba-da (Oh, ah-ah-ah-ah) Bum, bum, bum-ba-da ah (Oh, ah-ah-ah-ah) Bum, bum, bum-ba-da, ba-da (Oh, ah-ah-ah-ah) Bum, bum, bum-ba-da ah (Oh, ah-ah-ah-ah)
[Fluttershy (male voice)] Trot outside and you see the sunshine Something's in the air today Sky is clear and you're feelin' so fine Everything's gonna be a-okay
[Toe-Tapper and Torch Song] If you listen carefully On every corner there's a rhythm playing
[Toe-Tapper and Rarity] Then it happens suddenly The music takes you over and you'll
Find you've got the music ( Fiiiiiiiiiiiiiiind the music) Got the music in you (Rarity: Oh, you) Find you've got the music (Rarity: Fiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiind the music) Got the music in you
[Fluttershy (male voice)] Oh, o-o-oh Everypony's sayin' you should learn to express your voice But if talk doesn't seem like it's the answer
Luckily you have a choice When you find you've got the music ( Fiiiiiiiiiiiiiiind the music) Got the music in you (Rarity: Oh, you) Find you've got the music (Rarity: Fiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiind the music) Got the music in you
Got the music, got the music in you!
[cheering] Pony Tones! Pony Tones!
Pony Tones! That was truly amazing!
And you sounded better than ever, big brother!
Fluttershy, you were on the wrong side of the curtain! You totally missed the show!
Uh, just like a true professional, Fluttershy was backstage making sure everything ran smoothly! [hushed, to Fluttershy] And it was perfect.
That was fantastic, Pony Tones!
My new puppy and I thought it was super-duper crazy good!
Why, thank you!
And we were wondering if you would consider performing at my daughter Zipporwhill's cute-ceañera.
Will you? Will you?
We'd love to! When is it? Next week? Next month?
Tomorrow!
Oh, gracious, I'm terribly sorry, but that's much too last minute.
Oh, no...
Well... I understand.
[deep male voice] Oh, Rarity, we can't disappoint that sweet little filly.
[hushed] Are you sure you're up for it?
When you find you've got the music Got the music in you Find you've got the music Got the music in you
Got the music, got the music in you!
Whoo, yeah, alright! We got the Pony Tones, we got the Pony Tones!
Amazing, Pony Tones! And it would be even more amazing if you could perform at my ribbon-cutting ceremony tomorrow!
Oh, Mayor, we would love to, but... [clears throat] Would you excuse us for a second, Mayor?
Certainly.
[hushed] Don't worry, Fluttershy, you don't have to perform again.
[deep male voice] But we wouldn't want to disappoint the Mayor.
Well, then... Mayor? The Pony Tones will happily perform at your ceremony!
[Fluttershy (male voice)] Trot outside and see the sunshine Something's in the air today Sky is clear and you're feelin' so fine Everything's gonna be a-okay
[deep male voice] We wouldn't want to disappoint the spa patrons.
If you listen carefully On every corner there's a rhythm playing Then it happens suddenly The music takes you over and you'll
[deep male voice] We wouldn't want to disappoint the schoolponies.
Find you've got the music Find it in your heart, you can Find it, oh yeah Got the music in you now
Got the music, got the music in you!
Fluttershy, we must talk to you. Big Mac's voice is all better!
Eeyup.
Now you can bathe in the poison joke antidote and sound like your lovely self again.
[deep male voice] It's just... I didn't know that last performance was my last performance.
Fluttershy, stop! Ohhh... [to Big McIntosh] Would it be okay if Fluttershy sang for you one last time?
Hmm. Eeyup.
[Fluttershy (male voice)] Hey, find it, oh why, you can find it In your heart, yeah, find the music, yeah It's in you right now! Oh, yeah! You can find the music!
[Fluttershy (male voice)] Yeah, yeah, I love the music, ye—
Fluttershy?!
Big Mac, you got some 'splainin' to do! [beat] Turkey call?
Eeyup.
Trash your voice?
Eeyup.
Zecora remedy?
Eeyup.
Not quick enough?
Nnope.
Needed a deep voice?
Eeyup.
Poison joke?
Eeyup.
Flutterguy?
Eeyup.
Better now?
Eeyup.
And that shy filly was livin' her dream in the shadows because she couldn't bring herself to come into the spotlight?
Eeyup.
Well, for corn's sake! Let's go!
Fluttershy? You in here?
[normal voice] Yes... I'm here.
That was totally unbelievable! I mean, the curtain came up and there you were, singing in front of everypony! And you know, I don't think anypony was jealous, 'cause there certainly wasn't an angry mob! But it must have been horrible standing there on stage, all eyes glued directly on you! It's like you were living your own personal worst nightmare!
[crying] It was.
What? Too much?
What Pinkie meant to say is that you were really great!
Wait! Didn't I say that?
Hardly!
Whoops. You were great!
You totally blew my mind!
Incredible!
Though, no offense... you kind of sounded like a dude.
Uh, a great-sounding dude!
Well, thank you all. I'm glad you enjoyed it. Because I'm never going to sing in front of anypony ever again.
Are you kidding me?!
Can we please stop running?
I just don't understand why, Fluttershy. After all, you're the one that wanted the Pony Tones to sing for every silly thing that was requested of us.
You mean, you knew I really wanted to perform?
Of course I knew!
Oh...
And, for all her babbling, Pinkie Pie was right about one thing.
Only one?!
When that curtain fell, and everypony saw you singing, you lived your worst nightmare! Was it really that bad?
Yes!
Well, what was so bad about it?
The thunderous applause?
The praise for your fantastic singin'?
The screaming fans?!
There's music in the treetops And there's music in the vale And all around the music fills the sky There's music by the river And there's music in the grass And the music makes your heart soar in reply
When you find you've got the music
You've got to look inside and find
Find you've got the music
The music deep inside you
Find you've got the music
'Cause when you look inside, you'll see it
Find you've got the music
You're gonna find it, gonna find
You've got the music Got the music, got the music Got the music in you!
You did it, Fluttershy!
See? That wasn't so bad.
And you didn't look completely petrified by the fact that we're all staring at you at all!
How do you feel?
Surprisingly... okay!
Fantastic, because the Pony Tones have been booked for the Apple Family Zap Apple Jam Extraordinaire!
Oh, no... I couldn't do that!
How come?
I'll get there someday. But for now... baby steps, everypony. Baby steps.
Sometimes, being afraid can stop you from doing something that you love, but hiding behind these fears means you're only hiding from your true self. It's much better to face those fears so you can shine and be the best pony you can possibly be.
Uh, Sweetie Belle, maybe we should run through the steps another few times before you try it on your own.
Nope. Ready to give it a shot!
Okay then!
[straining] Can't... seem... to...! [straining] [neck clicks] Ugh! Think I threw my neck out...
Aw, you're okay.
A little more magic practice and liftin' brooms'll be a cinch!
I doubt it. That thing weighs a ton.
Hmph. I'll never get my cutie mark for this...
Maybe not. But I'm happy to keep helping you learn just for the fun of it as long as you like.
Hey, who's gonna clean up this mess?
Scootaloo, I already told you I won't show you how, but I'll help you find the instructions so you can figure it out yourself.
Ugh, I hate research!
To your left, third shelf from the bottom. You'll find it in no time.
Thanks so much for helpin' us all learn these new skills, Twilight.
Always glad to pass on my love of learning for learning's sake.
Only I'm afraid I'll never get the hang of this potion-makin'.
Did you follow the magic plant-growing formula I gave you?
Well... uh... more or less.
Well, let's try it out on this apple seedling and see how we do.
Oh... I hope this works.
Layin' it on a little thick there, aren't we, pal?
Yoo-hoo! Gather 'round! It's time!
As you all know, I had promised to put on an amazing, first-time-ever acrobatic display for you all today!
I know, it's so exciting. But I'm tired.
Awww...
But I did not wish to disappoint you all, so I brought my butler Randolph to do them for me.
That was amazing, Diamond Tiara.
I know. I don't know how I do it.
I can't believe she gets so much attention without even really doing anything!
She's using somepony else to build herself up, and without even putting any effort to learn her own skills like we do!
Hey, come to think of it, if we get really good at the stuff Twilight's teaching us, we could be the big shots around here for a change! Hmm...
Check this out!
And check this out!
Now check this out!
[yelping] Hey, put me down!
Hey, can you hear me?
Huh? Huh? What? What?
I was asking if your sister Rarity will be taking you to Manehattan anytime soon.
Because if she is, maybe you can meet up with us while we hang out with a bunch of famous celebrities.
Cool!
Wow, that's... pretty nice of you guys.
Actually, my sister hasn't offered to take me to Manehattan anytime soon.
Yeah, we figured.
Oh, yeah?! Well, I don't have to go all the way to Manehattan to hang out with the famous and super-cool ponies! Me and my friends hang out with Princess Twilight all the time!
D-did you say Princess Twilight?! You hang out with her all the time? For real?
More like just once a week.
She helps us learn cool new stuff to do! That we actually do ourselves!
You must bring me along next time you go!
Bring us along!
I mean, we used to see her around town all the time, and I thought, "whatever"...
Me too. I thought that.
But now she's a princess, which makes her totally awesome!
Plus, she has wings.
And she's an Alicorn. So can I–
We!
–go?
I don't think we should–
Would you two excuse us for a moment? We should totally say yes! This is a golden opportunity!
Are you kiddin'? I don't want them laughing at us while I'm mixin' potions and accidentally sendin' plants into chokin' fits!
But don't you get it? They'll have to learn something too!
And they won't be able to laugh at us when they're so busy trying to learn stuff of their own.
I must admit it's kinda fun to see them workin' hard to get on our good side for a change.
Oh, my gosh! A princess lives in there! And I'm about to go inside and see her! I can't even tell you how excited I am!
I can't either!
Now remember, Twilight takes this time out with us so we can learn stuff.
Hey there, guys! Come on in!
[squealing] Princess Twilight!
Oh, it's really her!
Oh, my gosh, I don't believe it!
Oh, and, uh, you brought guests. Great!
Princess Twilight, it is such a thrill and honor to be here! You have no idea. Oh my gosh, who dyes your tail?
I so have to get that done.
Actually, it's not dyed. I've always–
[gasp] Are those books in there? What a bold design choice!
You should so do that, Di!
I know, right?
Listen, I'm all for helping as many ponies as I can, but maybe we should keep these weekly visits just between us, hm? Okay, which one of you wants to practice first?
Shouldn't they go first?
No, silly! I set up Twilight Time especially for you. Apple Bloom, go ahead. Let's see how your plant potions are coming.
I can't believe I let you talk us into bringin' guests yesterday.
I didn't hear them laugh at us once, Apple Bloom.
'Cause they laughed on the inside.
Don't worry. We won't make that same mistake again.
Aw, great. Look who showed up to make fun of us.
So much for learning skills to be big shots.
Hey, guess what! I told everyone about your special Twilight Time!
Oh, no, here it comes...
And they all want in!
Thanks to me, you three are now the hottest thing around. You're welcome.
Uh-oh...
Wow! All these ponies really wanna meet Twilight that badly?
We love you, Cutie Mark Crusaders!
Now, now, everypony! Demanding time with the princess as an unruly mob simply won't do. Might I suggest you get organized through us, the Cutie Mark Crusaders' nearest and dearest friends?
Everypony get in line! No pushing, no pushing!
What a mess.
Of awesome! Don't you see? We're really and truly and certifiably the biggest of the big shots in school right now!
Huh?
They all think we're the greatest, because we're their ticket to get time with Ponyville's newest and biggest celebrity, Princess Twilight!
We just said like two seconds ago that invitin' two ponies to Twilight Time was a big mistake! And now we're supposed to bring the whole class?
Relax. I got this.
I don't like this, Sweetie Belle...
You said not to invite them to Twilight Time and I didn't. So what's the problem?
This feels like a trick.
What's tricky about inviting Twilight out for a meal thanking her for all the nice things she's done for us? Seems like the least we can do for the princess!
Did someone say "princess"?
When I told you when you could come eyeball the princess at one of her favorite hangouts, I said only two or three of you, tops!
Oops...
She's coming!
Okay! But stay out of sight!
As you wish, Sweetie Belle.
Yes, as I wish.
[messy eating noises] Mmm! Mmmm, mm! [with mouth full] I didn't realize how hungry I was! I'm so glad you asked me to join you here today... [swallows] I'm so honored! Mm!
You are?
When you first asked me to help you develop new skills, I thought, 'Working with young students so devoted to the joy of learning purely for its own sake? What could be better?' You all remind me of myself when I was your age!
Yes, well... we feel the same way.
That's why we invited you here.
All because of our love of learning!
Twilight! Haven't seen you here in, like, forever and a half!
I know. I've been so busy I forgot how delicious everything is here!
Totally! Hey, what's going on out there? Oh, never mind, they're gone. They're back! Never mind, they're gone. La la-la la-la...
[through gritted teeth] Knock it off!
What was all this? And this?
I couldn't help it! When I don't smile in a picture, I look sad.
Oh, we're gonna look sad all right...
[gasps] [long pause] Uh, can I... help you?
Get my picture with her!
Me first!
Hey! Get out of the shot!
This is bad.
Twilight's gonna be so ticked at us.
I told ya this was a terrible idea.
You seriously all want my autograph? Okay, I'll sign just a couple more for you, but then I really must get back to my little friends. Oh, there you are!
Wow, to think I've been to the Hay Burger so many times, never knowing it's a regular hangout for a princess!
This isn't my regular hangout. I'm only here to be with them.
You mean, Princess Twilight decides where it's cool to go based on where they go?
Huh?
Thanks, guys, this was fun! See ya around!
I'm opening a new lemonade stand! Won't you come to the grand opening? I'll give you free lemonade for a week!
Relax. I know exactly how to handle this.
More lemonade?
Don't mind if I do!
Done shining your hooves! It's an honor to do you the favor!
Whoa, so bright I can see myself!
And so can I! Nice job bedazzlin' my bow! What do I owe you?
Your gratitude is thanks enough.
You three must come to my pool party. It'll be much cooler than this.
Look who's inviting who to her fancy house!
I believe we have arrived, Cutie Mark Crusaders.
Yeah!
Wow, this is nice, but there's no one else here. Why is this party cooler, exactly?
Because of all the ponies we're keeping out.
This has been great, but we have to go. It's Twilight Time.
So, we're coming too, right?
Um... a-actually, no. We didn't have a chance to ask Twilight, so–
Really? After all the favors we did for you? After all the favors they did for you?
Okay, I know exactly how to handle this. Run!
Go, go, go!
We gotta beat them to Twilight's so we can explain!
This way! I know a shortcut!
Then we run, like the wind!
Twilight Time! Twilight Time!
[gasps] [out of breath] We... made... it... Quick! Knock on–
Twilight, we can explain.
We know you said we should just keep Twilight Time to us!
We didn't mean for so many other ponies to be here! Honest!
Oh, don't be silly. I only meant that for your benefit so you could get the most out of our time together. But if you want to share your time with others, that's fine.
So you're not mad?
Of course not! Come on in, everypony! Spike made nachos!
Turns out we'll need some more than that.
Before we start, we should maybe get a bit more organized? Ponies interested in magic in this corner. Ponies who want to learn potions over here. Bookworm ponies over there.
Incredible. Looks like everything's workin' out just fine.
And I was so afraid Twilight would be disappointed in us.
Told you I knew exactly how to handle all this!
Thanks to all of you for taking time out to come learn new things.
Thank you, princess!
We love you, princess!
Okay, okay, let's settle down. If you want to thank anypony, thank the Cutie Mark Crusaders for so generously sharing this time.
It was nothing, really. We just felt it was the right thing to do.
Hmph! What a laugh.
Let's begin over here. And what would you like to learn, little one?
I want to learn how to become a Cutie Mark Crusader!
And why do you want to become a Cutie Mark Crusader so badly, hm?
Because then I could get all my classmates to do me favors and stuff because I'm friends with a famous princess!
Oh, boy.
Is this true?
We wanted our time together just as a way to be with you and learn new things. Really and truly!
Prove it.
Huh?!
If it's true, then I'm sure you've all been practicing your skills over the past week. Show me how much better you got.
Uh, well, uh... we... can't.
We kinda rushed over and forgot to bring our stuff.
Hm, I see.
No, wait! Hey, everypony, you're in luck! You came to learn, but instead you're getting dinner and a show! Get ready, 'cause we, the Cutie Mark Crusaders, are about to lay on you the amazing skills we learned in Twilight Time!
Unfortunately, since we don't have Scootaloo's unicycle parts, she'll take apart and put back together one of the scooters from outside.
Hey! That's my scooter!
You got us into this mess, kid. Might wanna roll with us.
Huh?
Apple Bloom doesn't have her apple seed with her, so she'll just grab an apple from the kitchen. And I will begin by using my magic to lift this broom!
Ta-da!
Become a tree!
Rise!
That didn't turn out quite how I had hoped.
Looks like Twilight Time is over.
And look who's not the princess's entourage anymore.
Oooh!
Guess they didn't come here to learn after all.
Well, neither did any of you.
Awww...
We're really sorry, Twilight. We made a huge mistake.
And we really and truly did enjoy learning new skills with you.
Guess we'll have to just keep on doing it without you now. Thanks, Twilight.
Thanks...
Thanks...
Sweetie Belle? Remember a moment ago when you asked me to give you a chance?
[straining] Aw, come on!
I guess Twilight must not be so super-upset anymore, 'cause she's letting us do a diary entry like our sisters do. Boy, did we get our priorities messed up. We started acting special because we were friends with someone special. We almost forgot the real reason she's special – because she's our friend. But she forgave us, and, like magic, things are good as new! That's the kind of magic I really want to get good at, now that I'm getting so good at the other kind.
Wow, all three of you have made so much progress! I'm really proud of you. See you next time!
We're just glad Twilight Time is back to normal. Well... almost back to normal. I just hope no one sees us.
'Cause we're tryin' to keep Twilight Time a secret now?
Or because we look ridiculous?
A little of both, actually.
Okay, everypony. As you know, the adorable fairy creatures known as Breezies are about to come through Ponyville.
Yes! Ooh, it's so exciting! Ah! I can't wait for Rainbow Dash to make the breeze for them so I can see how cute they are up close!
I've never done it before, not that I won't be totally awesome at it, because I totally will!
And that breeze is very important, but so is cheering on those teeny-tiny little things, so they have the confidence to ride that breeze to their native land. Did I mention how tiny they are? So tiny! I was thinking we could do a special Breezie cheer!
I love cheers!
But these cheers should be quiet cheers. We don't want to startle them. They need to be able to concentrate. Why don't we try it? You can do it, Breezies.
[shouting] You can do it, Breezies!
Oh, my.
Heh, sorry, Fluttershy. I had no idea how hard it was to do a cheer quietly.
Oh, it's okay. Quiet doesn't come naturally for everypony. Let's try it again.
[quieter but still loudly] You can do it, Breezies!
Perhaps just a little bit quieter.
[quieter] You can do it, Breezies!
Just a little quieter.
[practically whispering] You can do it, Breezies!
[loudly] Perfect! Oh, um, I mean... yay.
That's too strong! We gotta slow this breeze down or we're gonna blow those Breezies apart!
Mr. What I don't understand is why they need the Pegasi to make a breeze for them.
Well, you see, it's the breeze that activates the Breezies' magic, and that magic protects the pollen they're carrying from being destroyed.
Mr. So, no breeze means no magic means the pollen goes bad?
That's right! And they only have two days to get that pollen back before the portal to their home closes. That's why it's ever-so-important that we help them make their way through Ponyville safely.
Mrs. We certainly wouldn't want to scare them and divert them from their path!
Now you understand.
Mr. Hm, you certainly know a lot about them.
Oh, thank you. I went to see them gathering their pollen in Western Equestria. Um, Rarity? I, uh, hate to weigh in with you when it comes to fashion, but...
Oh, there's too much purple on this, isn't there? I knew it! But Twilight refused to admit it.
What?! I-
Oh, no-no-no-no-no. It's the perfect amount of purple. It's just that there's an awful lot of sequins on your jacket.
You can if they reflect the sun, and the light catches a group of Breezies right in their eyes, and blinds them long enough to get them off their course so they never get home!
I stand corrected! I suppose there is the rare instance where one can have too many sequins. I'll just take off my jacket. I suppose this won't do either?
[whispering] Everypony, it's time. Please welcome... the Breezies!
They're as cute as Apple Bloom on the day she was born.
And would you look at those adorable little packs they carry their pollen in?
Lun! Arshen aifok!
So... cute! Can't... take... it!
[grunts] [hushed] Pinkie Pie, can I hop on you so I can see the Breezies?
[hushed, straining] May explode!
Oh, no!
Slow down the breeze for the other group to catch up!
They're too far back! We can't connect the breeze to both sets of Breezies!
What if we speed it up?
Then the first group'll be going too fast, and they'll get separated from each other!
Tanagretu nik mir! Maisegu de piripa!
Mekenar stuf!
He's right! You must all gather as close as you possibly can!
Mugudi saikendus?
Oh, I understand the language of all kinds of creatures!
You must be so proud.
And you speak my language too?
I can. This lot can only understand you. Clearly, they're not the brightest bunch around.
That was amazing!
I'm sorry we couldn't get a breeze going that would get them back to the others.
Oh, it's not your fault.
I, for one, am very proud of you, Fluttershy. Leaping into action like that.
I feel like I should design you a special hero's gown! Heh... Or a sash. At least a sash.
Okay, okay, okay! I know what you're all thinking! Why don't you just say it?! [crying] I'm sorry! This is all my fault! I'm so, so sorry!
Oh, Spike, it's okay! It could have happened to any one of us.
Okay... Thank you!
Uh... I'm... just... gonna stay over here.
So, Fluttershy, you want us to get the breeze going again so these little guys can get a move on?
Maybe we should wait just a moment or so. They've been through so much...
Just gimme the word when you think they're ready.
Oh, my, Twirly, you look like you need a blanket.
Sanken
Oh, no problem.
Malenki?
Oh, did you need some more water?
Now, who else needed a hoof-knitted sweater?
Hey there! Can we come in?
Oh, of course! But watch your step!
Oop, sorry about that, little one.
We just wanted to see if you thought the Breezies were ready to give it another try.
Has it been an hour already? Oh, my goodness! Time flies when you're making sure little creatures don't feel that you're abandoning them to the cruel world.
But they're not going to a cruel world, right? They're going home.
Oh, yes, that's right!
On second thought, I don't think they're quite ready.
Supa laipas data kurpa! Mise neku ersken laika maur! Siripat sulat!
Uh... what did he say?
I'd... rather not say.
Okay, well, I'm sure you know what you're doin'. No one knows rare magical creatures like you do.
We'll just wait for your word.
Thank you. I'll be in touch very soon.
We need to go now, or we will never get home! I wish we did not need that stupid breeze to activate our magic, or I would just force you all to fly home right now! Why do we have to need magic to keep our pollen safe?
Um, now, Seabreeze-
Why are you giving in to these wimps?! If they had not been so scared in the first place, this never would have happened!
But that is just not true, Seabreeze. It was because of a leaf, and you know that!
Oh, please! They have no idea what they're doing out there! Like you said, we need as much time as we can get because they are so incompetent!
Well, I didn't say that exactly now, did I?
Hmph!
Oh, well, maybe a snack will lighten the mood.
[burp] Mi fargen.
You're excused. Well, my Breezies, I think we can all agree that now that you've eaten and you have a little energy going in your breezy bodies, you're strong enough to face the breeze! I've loved having you here, and I hope I've made you all feel loved and special. But you have to go. Nopony here will deny that-
Okay, well, a confusing pep-talk, but nonetheless. I do know that if you don't leave soon, you may never make it back, and that would be terrible!
[sneezes] Merte marshken farde.
[coughs] Merki marshken plumatu.
I had no idea you all have colds! Really? All of you?
Oh, dear. I can't let you go out there sick! What kind of a friend would I be if I made you go now?
D'oh! Irde turten manes pudenhel! Nievo ut! Parde tarmen!
Hey, Fluttershy, just wondering if the Breezies are ready to go yet. Clock's kinda ticking for them to make it back before the door closes on their home.
Oh, yes. I mean, not quite. Um, maybe just a few more minutes?
Uh, alright.
We wait too much longer, we'll have to create such a strong breeze, it may be more than they can handle.
We just have to trust Fluttershy. She must know what she's doing.
Aww!
Why are you spending your time on this?! I will never get home!
Breezies, I must say, Seabreeze has a point. I think it's time for me to get Rainbow Dash and her friends so they can create the breeze for you to get home.
Ooh... You're all awfully anxious... Oh, I don't want you to feel abandoned, or that I wasn't the most kind host I could possibly be...
Adoshen papan gorn.
Oh, yes, that does make sense... Seabreeze, do you think you could wait just a couple more hou- Seabreeze? Seabreeze? Has anypony seen Seabreeze? [gasps] Where's he going? There's no way he can handle being out there on his own!
Ah! Ah! Ah! Blusken! Ah! Ah! Arge nusen! Uf! Osemi! Ah! Narsken! Noi serenda! Ah!
Ah! Gah! Ah! Kesino! Uu! Tu ge! Ah! Ah! Ah! Ah! Miuse konda!
Vaior uskren! Yavaya...
Ibeku-u-u! Ah, sa-sabada!
Excuse me, bees? Can you please back off my Breezie friend? He didn't mean any harm. It was just an accident. I'm working on a bee-type dance and was hoping you could help me? Does this bring to mind any images for you? Perhaps a bee? Excuse me! I have done nothing but be kind, but I guess that is not working! You bees know better than to hurt a helpless Breezie! I demand that you go away now, or you'll have to answer to me!
Menkyulen. Thank you! Thank you so much! Thank you for coming after me!
Of course. You could've gotten seriously hurt out there. Ponyville is much too dangerous for you. One tiny acorn is a threat!
Yeah, I know! That is one reason why I have been trying to get us to go from the beginning!
Oh, my goodness. I was just trying not to hurt any creature's feelings, but my displays of kindness may have cost you everything... [gasps] Time is running out, and you may never make it home!
That is exactly what I have been telling all of them! But they do not listen to me! Nobreezie ever listens to me!
Seabreeze, I understand your feelings are hurt, but it's hard for them to hear you when you're shouting and being mean. The message doesn't get across.
But what about those bees? You were not nice to them, and that was the only way they listened!
Yes, but they had to go, and they wouldn't listen to me any other way. We need to go, now!
My dear Breezies, I had to rescue Seabreeze from serious harm, and now I know more than ever that you must leave before it's too late! You would never survive in Ponyville.
Erski parli polin!
It's too strong!
I can't do it any lighter!
Neither can I!
Fly back! I'm gonna try and see if I can slow it down. Now it's too light! Oh, this will never get them home!
Oh, my. Maybe it's because there are too few of them. When they started their journey, there was more of them to face the breeze together.
I've been studying an old spell book from the Castle of the Two Sisters. There's a spell that I think could help us! This is probably gonna feel a little funny at first, but you're gonna have to trust me.
I love new ideas that make me feel funny at first!
Maifo flai batendud! [high-pitched] Um, I mean, let's go!
Marskin farskin.
Metar.
You can do this! I am sorry for how I treated you before! It was not right that I called you names! I did not even really believe those things I said! I was worried we would never get back to our home, and I lashed out... I know you can do this! I believe in you! Hold on to me, let us join the group!
[high-pitched] Holy mini-sized paradise!
[high-pitched] This is simply beautiful! So much inspiration. Where's my sketchpad when I need it?
[high-pitched] So...stinkin'...cute!
[high-pitched] You okay, Fluttershy?
[high-pitched] I'm just so very happy they got to be reunited with their family!
[high-pitched] We'd better get going before the entrance- well, exit for us, closes.
[high-pitched] Goodbye, Breezies. I must go now.
To remember us by.
[high-pitched] Thank you! I'll miss you. I'll miss all of you! [voiceover, normal] My experiences with the Breezies have helped me to see that kindness can take many forms, and sometimes being too kind can actually keep a friend from doing what they need to do. Pushing them away may seem cruel, but it's sometimes the kindest thing you can do.
[high-pitched] Whoa! That was a close one!
[high-pitched] Okay, gather round.
So, uh, I've always kinda wondered what it would be like to be a griffon.
Not a chance.
You sure? What about a dragon? No? It doesn't have to shoot fire!
Whatever they decide, Apple Bloom, we'll be here for you.
Totally. Even though it could change everything for you, forever and ever!
So, we here have decided... that you're old enough to stay home alone and take care of the chores yourself for the afternoon!
I accept your decision.
Stayin' home alone, by myself, on my own! I can't believe I'm really doin' it!
Now, hey there, filly. I know you're excited, but bein' the only pony here to take care of the day's chores is a big responsibility.
I know it! And it means everythin' to me that y'all think I'm grown up enough to handle it. I won't let you down.
Well, if'n I'm gonna make my train, I best to be off. When Great Aunt Pine Apple says a pony's gots to ride by a certain time, you better be there! You be sure and take care now, Apple Bloom. Y'all take care as well. I don't know which of your delivery routes is tougher. you're each headed to a mighty hard-to-reach town.
Eeyup.
We know, Granny. That's the only reason I agreed to let Apple Bloom stay behind alone.
It is?
Oh, I didn't mean it like that, sugarcube. It's just, I take my job as your big sister real serious, which is why I spent all night makin' this.
What is it?
Just a little list of helpful reminders.
[reading] "There's some soup for you in the 'frigerator. Be sure not to heat it up too much. If it's hot, blow on it to cool it off. And take little sips — if you gulp, you could get hiccups." You don't have to worry about me. I can take care of myself and the chores! I'm ready for this.
[sighs] I guess you are. I'm just not so sure I am.
But you trust me and believe I'm grown up enough to handle this, right?
[sighs] Right. Okay then. Good luck, little sis— whoa!
[quickly] Okaygreatseeyousoonbye!
Eyuu-up!
Woo-hoo! I'm alone! At home! I'm home alone! This is gonna be so awesome!
Eheheh... Sorry, Big Mac. I was just frettin' a bit about Apple Bloom. You think she's gonna be okay on her own?
Eeyup.
I just keep on thinkin' of things I forgot to put on her list. Like, I didn't write down that if she wants to get a spoon out of the drawer, she needs to open the drawer first. [sighs] I know, I'm probably just bein' silly.
Eeyup.
But I know I'd feel a heap better if I could just check on Apple Bloom one last time. You go on ahead and make your delivery. I'm just gonna take a quick peek, and then I'll make mine.
Okay, number one seventy two: "Make sure to pump the bellows to keep the stove warm."
Check! "Make sure the hats and bows closet is fully stocked." Check! [spits] That's everything on Applejack's list! And now that my chores are done, since there's no one else here, I get to make all the decisions! If I wanna listen to music, I can! If I wanna read a book, I can! If I wanna just stand here in the kitchen talkin' to myself, I can!
Apple Bloom!
Whoa!
Ugh... Applejack?
I came back to check on you, and I'm so glad I did! I never thought about how dangerous things are around here!
Thanks, but I'm really gonna be okay.
You are now! Because I'm here and I'm stayin'! No way am I leavin' my little baby sister home alone all by herself!
I'm not a baby! I can take care of myself! And what about those pies you're supposed to deliver?
Pies? Ha! Family's way more important than pies!
But I'm fine! And actually... this was kind of your fault.
I know. I should never have left you alone.
But I don't need you lookin' after me. I'm perfectly capable of stayin' home alone. Really! Just look! "There's some soup for you in the 'frigerator."
What was that?
Watch me!
Whoa! Ugh!
Oh, no! This is worse than I thought! Well, don't worry, Apple Bloom, I'm here now and I'm not leavin' you home alone ever again. I'm stickin' right by your side, always!
Apple Bloom? Apple Bloom!
Applejack's just overreactin' a bit. I'm sure she'll snap out of it. Whoa!
You need somethin'? I'm right here!
I know you mean well, but I don't need you watchin' over me! I can take care of things myself!
Look! Huh? Hey! Who put pillows on this rake?
[chuckles] Oh, I don't know. Maybe someone who really loves her little sister and doesn't want her to get an owie?
Hm? Hm.
Oh, for the love of...! [sighs] You've gone and baby-proofed everythin'!
Heh, yup! Your big sister let you down once, but I promise it won't ever happen again.
But really, I'm fine! I can take care of myself. I don't need you watchin' over me!
Aw, that's sweet. I appreciate you tryin' to make me feel better, but don't worry. I'll always be here for you. Always!
[sighs] And that's the reason I asked y'all to come over quick.
Hey, Apple Bloom! You need anything? A snack? A hoof massage? Maybe a snack while havin' a hoof massage?
Why, that sounds delightful!
[through gritted teeth] No thank you!
O-kay, well you can count on me bein' close by if'n you need anythin'!
[sighs] You see what I mean? If this keeps up, I'm never gonna be able to do anythin' without Applejack hoverin' over me!
Mm-hm.
So what can we do? Hmm.
Uh...
Um...
Hang on a sec! I got it!
What?
The pies! I'll sneak out and deliver them! Granny said that they were goin' to some incredibly hard-to-reach town. If I can do it alone, that'll show Applejack I don't need somepony watchin' over me!
Just one problem. Your sister's gonna come back and check on you any minute!
Which means you need an escape plan.
Ooh, and I got an idea for one! [mocks snoring] See? It'll look just like you're sleeping in bed. Sweetie and I can take turns! That way, when one of us gets tired, the other can take over. Brilliant, huh?
Mm-hm!
You know what? It is! I got a feelin' this just might work! We're gonna make my sister see I don't need her watchin' over me—
Stop! No time for a song! Applejack's coming!
If you're gonna go, we've gotta get you out of here now!
Cutie Mark Crusaders, let's do it!
Whoa!
[muffled] Everythin' okay in there, sugarcube?
Quick, get in while I hide! Sweetie, no! You gotta sleep like Apple Bloom!
How does she sleep?
Like she does everything! With sass!
Huh. I guess you must've been so tuckered out, you sent your friends home and went to bed. Then again, you are a delicate flower. [sighs] Sleep tight, Apple Bloom. I'll check on you again in a bit.
Just checkin' in on you again!
Need anythin' now?
How 'bout now?
Need another blanket?
Did I hear a cough?
Want a glass of water?
[yawning] Just... checkin' in on you again. [sighs] Look at you, dozin' so peaceful-like. Here I am, checkin' up on you every five seconds, and you're totally fine. Maybe you don't need me frettin' over you all the time.
[gasps] [muffled] Wow, Apple Bloom will be so glad to hear that!
Huh? Scootaloo?
Uh, um, n-no.
Sweetie Belle? But... where's Apple Bloom? She's not here! She could be anywhere! She could be lost, cold, hungry, itchy, stuffed up, needin' to go to the bathroom!
Don't worry, we know exactly where she is.
Yeah, she's making your pie delivery.
What?! No! Didn't she hear how difficult and dangerous it was?! [gasp] I may never see my little sister again!
Okay, Rarity's on her way here to look after you two. Now tell me, did Apple Bloom at least bring flameproof boots? A lion tamer's chair? A snake charmin' flute?! A hunk of ricotta?! [gasps] [teeth chattering] Okay, maybe there's still time to catch her before she gets there. When did she leave?
It must've been hours ago.
Oh, no!
Well, now at least I can see.
Chimera' I'd stay where you are. This is the only safe spot around here.
[nervous whimpering] It don't look so safe to me.
Chimera' Oh, we just mean from the flames.
Chimera' Yeah, not from us.
Chimera' What was that? Ah, can you guysss ssspeak up?
Chimera' I was about to tell our guest how we haven't eaten in days.
Chimera' My sisters and I can never agree on what to eat.
Chimera' [hisses] Excccept... pie.
Well, unfortunately, I gotta get these pies to a town on the other side of the swamp, so, uh...
Chimera' Oh, you don't have to worry about that.
Chimera' Yeah, you don't have to worry about anything anymore.
Chimera' Because we're going to have our apple pie with a ssside of filly filet.
Chimera' Now, sisters, on three! One!
Chimera' Two!
Chimera' [hisses] Three!
No!
Chimera' Where are the pies?!
Chimera' They're not back here.
Chimera' This is your fault! You think you've always got to be in charge!
Chimera' [sighs] You're lucky, you know? You've got no idea what it's like to have a sister constantly looking over your shoulder!
Uh, actually...
Chimera' Let's try listening to me for a change! And I say, if there are no pies, let's settle for the filly filet!
Chimera' [hisses] Any lassst wordsss?
I really wish my sister were here!
Hang on, Apple Bloom! I'm a-comin'!
Chimera' Get her!
Chimera' Hey! I thought I was in charge now!
Howdy!
Chimera' [growls] [bleats] Mm, ricotta!
Let's go!
[panting] Are you okay?
Thanks to you.
I told you you need your big sister lookin' after you! I'm just glad this wasn't a whole lot worse. I mean, sure we lost the cart and all the pies, but at least you're— Huh, the cart! And all the pies! You actually got them all the way up here? In the dark? Through the Flame Geyser Swamp? Past that monster? ...By yourself?
Well... yeah.
Huh, wow. That's mighty impressive! Anypony who can do that on her own, well, she don't need somepony like me babyin' her.
"Duce Switchell": Mm-hm! Andouille! This pie's even tastier than my momma's swamp water casserole!
"Duce Switchell": Aw, now, momma, don't be like that.
Just remember, you fellas wouldn't be enjoyin' these pies if it weren't for my sister.
And my sister!
But this don't change the fact that tryin' to make this delivery on your own was a plumb crazy thing to do!
I know...
[scoffs] I bet Granny Smith grounds you for a month for sneakin' out! And if Big Mac, Granny Smith 'n I ever have to be away for the day again... I would totally trust you to stay home and take care of things on your own. I guess I did get a little carried away watchin' over you, and if you hadn't snuck out like you did, maybe I wouldn't have figured that out.
Yes! Now that is the kind of 'looking after me' that I can definitely appreciate! So... we're good?
Little sister, we're always good.
Has anypony heard from Pinkie Pie since yesterday?
Nuh-uh.
[yawns] I don't see what's so important we had to meet her here this early. Celestia hasn't even raised the sun yet!
Thank goodness you're all here! There's no time to lose!
Whoa!
Ooh...
Ugh! Hey- whoa!
Careful!
What is all this?
My sister Maud's gonna be here soon, and I need your help taste-testing my rock candy recipes!
Uh, we're happy to help you, Pinkie Pie, but this seems like an awful lot of candy.
Even for you.
Everypony ready for more?
Ugh. My teeth hurt.
I think we've had plenty. And shouldn't you be on your way to pick up Maud from the train station?
Maud is your sister. I'm sure she'll love your rock candy. And I'm pretty sure you've made enough. She's only staying for the week.
Aw, it's not just for Maud, silly. I'm making candy for all of us!
Aw, what a great tradition.
Hold on. The secret ingredient is rocks?
Yeah. But these are a special kind of rock that Maud discovered.
Oh, what kind of a rock are they?
Can't tell ya that, silly! [whispering] It's a secret! [speaking normally] Now that Maud is heading out to get her rocktorate in rock science, this may be our last chance to trade them for a really long time. I can't wait for you all to meet her. I just know that my best Ponyville friends and my best sister friend are gonna become bestest friends! We can make bestest-est friend rock candy necklaces together! She expresses herself through fashion just like Rarity, and she's really smart and loves reading just like Twilight! And she's honest, and loves forest things, and is good at games, and... Well, oh, she's awesome!
[strained] She sounds amazing, but won't she start worrying if you aren't at the train station when she gets here?
She sure will. [gasp] I gotta get out of here!
I sure hope Maud has an appetite.
Never met a pony or critter who didn't love Granny Smith's apple spiced muffins!
Oh, it's no use! I simply cannot find anything suitable to wear!
I doubt she'll notice what anypony's wearing, so what's the big deal?
The big deal is that it will be very difficult to show Maud what a strong fashion presence we have in Ponyville if the most fashion-forward pony here can't keep her hat from falling apart!
I think we're all a little nervous about Maud's visit. She's Pinkie Pie's sister, and it's obvious Pinkie really wants us to hit it off. Being able to make those rock candy necklaces together is really important to her. I'm sure everything will be fine–
We're heeeere!
Where's Maud?
She's coming!
Uh... you sure?
She's not quite as fast as me. I asked Gummy to stay with her in case she got lost!
[whispering] Is she even moving?
We're over here, Maud!
[sniffs] [deadpan] Hm. Sedimentary.
Huh?
[deadpan] This is a sedimentary rock.
That's... really fascinating, isn't it, girls? We're just so thrilled you could come for a visit before your big trip. Pinkie Pie has told us so much about you. I'm Twilight, and this is Applejack, Fluttershy, Rainbow Dash, and Rarity.
We're ever so glad to meet you.
We're just gonna have the best time!
Pinkie Pie tells me you share my love for fashion.
[deadpan] I'm really into expressing myself through my wardrobe.
A-and what is the delightful frock you're wearing now saying?
[deadpan] It doesn't talk. It's a dress.
Uh, so this here's Winona. That's Owlowiscious, Tank, Opal, and Angel. Pinkie Pie told us you have a pet, too.
[deadpan] He's in my pocket.
Oh, you have a pocket pet? Like a tiny mouse? Or a baby bird? Or a trained butterfly?
[deadpan] It's a rock. His name is Boulder.
This is going to be the best, most awesome, funnest week ever! I can't wait for us all to become bestest friends!
Maud? Would you like to try one of Granny Smith's famous apple spiced muffins?
Oh, uh, heh, that's not– Um...
[chews] [with mouth full] [deadpan] It's crunchy.
[chews] [with mouth full] Maud's right! They are crunchy! Yum!
So, uh, Pinkie Pie tells us you like games.
[deadpan] Boulder and I sometimes play a game called 'Camouflage'. It's kind of like hide and seek but way more intense.
Awesome?
Any luck?
I truly wish I'd spent more time with Boulder, because I'm having a very hard time remembering what he looks like.
It's like looking for a pebble in a haystack.
More like in a pile of pebbles.
Well, you don't have to make it even harder.
Ugh! I give up! this is impossible!
It'll hurt Maud's feelings if we all stop playing. Besides, look how much fun Pinkie Pie's having.
Is this him? Is this him? Is this him? Is this him?
Just a little longer, okay?
Uh, alright, fine...
[simultaneously] Really?
[deadpan] Found him.
Oh! Where was he?
[deadpan] He was hiding in my pocket.
Oh, come on!
I don't mean to interrupt, but we really should get these little critters home. It's getting awfully late, and they've had a very busy day.
Maud and I had better get going too. I want her to taste the rock candy we're gonna use for our best friends necklaces! Aw, yeah!
She sure is... different from what I expected.
We spent all day digging in the dirt, and he was in her pocket the whole time?!
On the bright side, Boulder seemed really sweet.
He's a rock!
Come on, girls. I'm sure Maud was just nervous about meeting all of us.
Maybe she was just acting a little 'off' because she was shy or somethin'.
Exactly. It must be awfully intimidating to meet all of us at once, especially since we're already such good friends.
Maybe if we spend some time with her one-on-one to try to get to know her better, I'm sure we'll be making those best friend rock candy necklaces in no time.
Where shall we start? I've chosen a few fabrics that I think will be stunning with y–
Choices, choices, choices!
...Of course, if you don't see anything that speaks to you, I would be happy to suggest–
[deadpan] I like this one.
[laughs] Pinkie Pie didn't tell us you were so funny!
[deadpan] What do you mean?
Oh, well, it's just... I believe that is a dishtowel. [beat] B-b-but it does go very well with your complexion. I'm sure I could work my magic and turn it into something fabulous.
Rarity and my sister working together to design something amazing! This is the best day ever!
Perhaps I could sew all of these together and make you something you'd like.
[deadpan] No thanks. One is enough.
Doesn't Maud make the coolest scarves?
Quite...
Hello there, Hummingway. I'm ever so happy to see you.
What's he saying?
He says hello, and he's happy to see us too.
I wish I could speak hummingbird. Humm! Hum-m-m-m-m, hum!
[to Maud] These spiders only live in Ponyville, and even though they may look a teeny bit scary, they're actually very sweet and help keep other, more dangerous insects away!
[deadpan] I was looking at the rock.
Oh.
Thanks again, Fluttershy! Start thinking about which flavors you want to put on your best friend rock candy necklace!
Oh gosh. I'm not sure we're even friends yet.
Maud is a total bookworm. She loves poetry!
I've got lots of poetry. Do you read anything by Quilland Ink? Or Flourish Prose?
[deadpan] I prefer to read my own poetry.
Oh, I'd love to hear some of it!
[clears throat] [deadpan] Rock. You are a rock. Gray. You are gray. Like a rock. Which you are. Rock.
I've written thousands.
She's so prolific!
[deadpan] This next one is about rocks. They're all about rocks. Rocks; these are my rocks. Sediments: make me sedimental. Smooth and round, asleep in the ground. Shades of brown and gray...
You 'bout done peelin' them apples for the cider, Maud?
[deadpan] I think this one is done.
[deadpan] Should I peel another?
No! I mean, nah. I'm sure there's plenty apples in it already.
[sniffs] Can we taste it now?
Sure, why not?
[glugs] Wow! That's the best apple cider I've ever had!
What do you think, Maud?
[sips] [deadpan] It tastes like apples.
Told you she was super honest, just like you!
[nervously] We're practically twins, heh.
Yeah! Let's see you beat that! Whooaa!
That was amazing!
Whoa. How'd you do that?
[deadpan] I threw it.
I guess you won this one, Maud.
[deadpan] I'm not really into... 'winning'.
Great, you're all here! Maud is out looking for rocks, so this is the perfect time for us to set up everything we'll need to make our best friend rock candy necklaces!
What's wrong?
Well, I'm not sure it's the best time to make best friend rock candy necklaces.
Why not?
Uh...
Well, darling, you see...
You're ever so thoughtful to share your special bonding ritual with us, but, uh...
But what?
[sighs] The truth is, we've all been tryin' real hard to get closer to Maud, but, well... maybe some ponies just don't click the way others do.
We just wouldn't feel right makin' somethin' that means we're best friends if, well, we aren't.
[mane deflates] Oh. Okay. If anypony needs me, I'll be in here trying to figure out what to do with two hundred pounds of rock candy.
I feel awful! Just awful...
Maybe we should have just pretended we were friends with Maud.
If we didn't tell Pinkie Pie that we hadn't all become the best of friends, I think Maud would have.
Maybe, but who really knows? That pony is a riddle wrapped in a mystery inside an igneous.
Don't you mean "inside an enigma"?
Nope. I mean igneous. It's a kind of rock. Ask me how I know that.
I've come up with just the thing to bring everypony closer together!
Huh?
It combines everypony's interests into one giant activity that we can all enjoy together and that will totally bring all of my bestest friends together as bestestest friends! You'll need these.
Like I said: Huh?
Probably better for me to show you. Watch this! Applesauce tunnel for Applejack, pretty shiny stuff for Rarity, reading material for Twilight, critter time for Fluttershy...
Cupcakes for yours truly... [chomps] and it's a race for Rainbow Dash!
Pinkie Pie, what is that?!
A rock slide, of course! For Maud! First you climb, then you slide!
I've got a bad feeling about this...
Oh, goodness!
Watch out!
What– how– what?!
Pinkie Pie, what were you thinking?
I guess I wasn't.
I know how important it is to you that your friends become my friends, but I just don't think it's going to happen. I think it would be best if I just go back to the rock farm and spend the rest of the week there. It was nice to meet you all. Makes me happy knowing Pinkie Pie has such good friends.
But... we never even got to make our rock candy necklaces... Wait, Maud! I'll come with you!
I can't believe Maud cut her trip short.
I can't believe we nearly lost Pinkie Pie to that ridiculous obstacle course.
Thank goodness Maud was able to reach her in time.
Did you see how fast Maud moved?
And the way she smashed that huge rock into dust? How in Equestria did she do that?
Pinkie Pie was in trouble! Maud would move mountains for her if she had to.
That's it! I think I finally realized what we all have in common with Maud! Something that just might be worthy of a very important super-duper special tradition that only the closest and bestest of friends can share!
Thank you for coming with me. I don't know how long I'll be gone on my rock research trip. I'm glad I still get to spend some time with you before I go.
Me too. I'm sorry I put so much pressure on everypony to bond. I only wanted my friends to get to know my amazing older sister.
What are you doing here?
Pinkie Pie, we're so sorry we hurt your feelings by not bonding with Maud right away. And Maud, we're sorry that you felt the only way to spare Pinkie Pie's feelings was to leave Ponyville early.
Mm-hm.
We've seen how much you care about Pinkie Pie firsthoof.
Pinkie Pie's happiness means as much to us as it does to you, and we're sorry we couldn't see it sooner. The thing that makes us click and creates a special bond between us is how much we all love Pinkie Pie!
Aw, shucks!
That's a pretty great thing to have in common, if you ask me. What do you think, Maud?
Sure.
What's wrong?
Sorry, darling. I think we all just thought she'd be a bit more excited about this.
Are you kidding me? I've never seen her more excited in my entire life!
[deadpan] I don't know if you've noticed, but I don't show my enthusiasm for things quite in the same way my sister does.
Uh, we noticed. And we're totally cool with it.
Maud, we'd like to give you something to take on your trip, so that you remember all your friends from Ponyville.
[deadpan] Thank you.
Are those all the necklaces Pinkie Pie sent you?
[deadpan] Mm-hm.
You haven't eaten any of them?
[deadpan] I don't really like candy. But I do love Pinkie Pie.
[chewing] Mmm!
I have to leave for dress rehearsal soon, Rarity! Is it finished yet?
Uh, not quite. I still feel it needs a certain je ne sais quoi. Perhaps it needs... appliqués.
Appliqués?
Or sequins.
Sequins!
Sweetie Belle, I adore having you help me, truly I do, but...
Guess I got a little carried away. It's just that I know how important it is for you to finish this wardrobe in time for Sapphire Shores and her backup dancers.
This is without a doubt my most prestigious order ever. After all, Sapphire Shores is the pony of pop, and her Equestria-wide tour launches in Canterlot next week! Which means she must have these outfits by day after tomorrow at the latest!
But is there time?
Barely. But I work well under pressure. Hmm, as long as I stay calm, I'll be fine.
Oh, good! Then maybe you could check the stitching and finish the buttons on the dresses I made for me, Apple Bloom, and Scootaloo? I really want them to look perfect, and... I think I need your expertise.
My, you've been so much help to me. How could I possibly say no? When do you need them?
Tomorrow night. For the opening night of our show!
But, Sweetie Belle, darling! I, I'm behind as it is!
I understand.
I suppose... if I got a few more ponies to help me, then maybe...
My goodness, girls, it's time! And the audience is almost fully seated! Costumes!
I can't believe Rarity still isn't here with the costumes.
She's been very busy lately!
But how can she still not be here? She's known about this for weeks! Uh... she has known about this for weeks, right?
I kept meaning to ask her, I really did, but I worked so hard on this play. I wrote it especially for the three of us! I directed it, I'm in it, I made the costumes... It's just that this is really my time to shine doing something completely myself, and I really wanted to keep it that way!
But we wanted everything to be perfect! All our friends came out to see it tonight!
Places!
Oh, I'm here, I'm here!
[gasps] You made it!
Oh, I beg your pardon for cutting it so close, but I made some improvements to your original design, and I had a terrible time with these froofy sleeves. It is for the first play you ever wrote, after all, so I made quite certain it came out just so.
Places! Hello?
Forsooth and anon, I cometh forthwith and posthaste with glad tidings, miladies.
Wow! A standin' ovation!
I still have goosebumps!
This must be like a dream come true for you, huh, Sweetie Belle?
Ooh, can you imagine if this show was how you got your cutie mark?
Which do you think you'd get it for? Writing, directing, or acting?
[deep breath] Let's not get carried away. We've got a whole lobby full of friends waiting to shower us with adoration and praise. Try to be gracious.
Modest.
Classy.
Here we are, the stars of the show!
You may tell us how much you loved it now.
Line forms here!
Wow, you guys! I think your sisters would have loved it!
Would have?
They're sorry, but they had to go help Rarity get Sapphire Shores' wardrobe ready to take to Canterlot in the morning.
Even Rainbow Dash?
Yeah. Rarity fell way behind.
Aww.
Aw, cheer up, the show was great! I'll get you some punch.
At least everypony else who was able to stay loved it.
What did you all like best? The writing, the directing, or the acting?
Oh my, I- I loved the dresses.
I liked some of those lines you said.
Oh, really? Which ones?
Uh, I don't really remember, but you were wearing a pink taffeta dress with lots of chiffon when you said them! Whoo-ee, that outfit was a dazzler!
That was a nice one too!
[growls] Isn't there anypony here who remembers anything about the play besides the dresses?!
All of this is one headpiece?
Indeed. This marvelous extravagance is the crème de la crème of the entire wardrobe! But alas, without this key hidden stitch, it's just a... I'm trying to think of a nicer way to say 'big bummer'. [sighs] Now perhaps we can all at last take a moment to relax!
Whatever's the matter, Sweetie Belle? Didn't the play go all right?
Not even close.
Oh, dear. Was something amiss with the dresses I made you?
No, they were perfect, and that was the whole problem!
Applejack, Fluttershy, Pinkie Pie, Huh?
Oh, um, I think maybe I'll go take that moment to relax now.
Heh, sure do feel like relaxing!
Right behind ya!
How could you?! "Oh, what amazing dresses! Oh, how I love the dresses! Ooh, dresses, dresses, dresses, dresses!"
Oh, so they did like them. [chuckles] You had me worried, you silly filly.
There! I knew it! You did this on purpose! Stealing the spotlight like you always do! It's my fifth birthday party all over again!
The... the what now?
Don't act like you don't remember. Or are you trying to prove you're a better actress than me too?!
Sweetie Belle, if I did anything to upset you, then--
Admit you made those dresses too good on purpose!
I thought they were supposed to be good.
Yes, good. Not jaw-dropping amazing!
I only tried to do what I thought you wanted.
Ha!
Ugh, I don't believe it. After everything I put up with all week long! [imitating Rarity] "Sweetie Belle, get me some red ribbon! No, that's not red, that's cherry! No, that's not red, that's cinnamon!" [normal, muffled] For Pete's sake, it's all red!
[to Opalescence] I should probably go talk to her, hm?
[muffled] At least Sapphire Shores won't be all like "Ooh, who fetched you that red ribbon? Because I don't care about anything else you made. All I care about is that amazing red ribbon!"
Perhaps waiting would be best.
[gulping water] I wish there was a way I could take back all the work I did!
[growls] Now what?
And the winner of the "Best Writer, Director, Actor in an Awesome Play Put on by a Pony and Her Awesome Best Friends" goes to...
"Star Gazer": Sweetie Belle!
Don't go!
Stop! Why do you have to ruin everything?!
Enough!
Princess Luna! It's really you! Or am I dreaming?
What do you think?
Let me see. You just rescued me from a maniacal laughing Rarity-cloud. Yeah, probably dreaming.
I understand what you're going through, Sweetie Belle. I too have a sister who often shines more brightly than me, and with this, I have struggled.
Wait, come back! Luna? Can you hear me? Thank you for what you did! Help, Luna! Luuuna!
I remember this. This is my fifth birthday party! I decided to make a grand entrance. I made myself all beautiful, just like my big sister.
Finally, I was perfect, and then went to the stairs to enter like the belle of the ball. When I finally came out of my room, I found the party going on without me.
And I kept posing at the top of the stairs, waiting to be noticed, but all I heard was...
Awesome! Where did you get these?
Made them myself. And of course, you'll all want cake, won't you?
You're the greatest, Rarity!
"Plum Star": Who needs a birthday girl when you've got the birthday girl's amazing big sister?
That's when I learned 'never try to shine with my big sister around'.
But perhaps you didn't have the whole story.
I thought you said you understood? Luna?
Where's Sweetie Belle?
I'm sure she'll be along in any moment.
"Titania": [yawns] I'm tired of waiting. I say we get out of here before we all keel over from boredom. Who's with me? Poor Sweetie Belle. Nopony's gonna come to another one of her parties after this fiasco.
Don't go! You'll miss out on the, uh, party favors! I was going to save them 'til the end, but...
Awesome? Where did you get these?
Made them myself. And of course, you'll all want cake, won't you?
"Plum Star": Who needs a birthday girl when you've got the birthday girl's amazing big sister?
Oh, no-no-no. All of these things were Sweetie Belle's idea. I just assisted with the execution.
I guess Rarity wasn't trying to steal the spotlight. She was trying to save my party. Luna? Luna!
Should I hem the cloaks now or wait until I'm there? I could hem them now, but I might have to redo them...
When was this?
But if I wait until I'm in Canterlot to hem them, Sapphire Shores might not get the best first impression...
Wait. This must've happened earlier tonight!
Ooh... Sapphire Shores is such a big star and such a stickler for details. What if everything's not perfect enough?
Funny, I thought I was the only one who got worried about stuff like that.
Oh, buck up, Rarity, stop this foolishness. You've done your best and left nothing to chance! All that's needed now is a good night's rest.
[sighs] I hope everything goes alright for her tomorrow.
Hm. How curious you should say that.
Go. Go see what the future holds if you fail to rein in your worst instincts, as I once did.
And here it is! The crème de la crème--
Noooo!
The piéce de resistance...
The headdress!
Looks like I made a mistake here.
But, but this is impossible! I, I, I checked and rechecked everything! This couldn't have happened!
You sure about that, honey?
Please, you must believe me!
Listen to my sister!
[screams] I don't wanna see any more!
Always check and recheck!
Who all wants to hear a funny story about my ex-costume designer?
Check, recheck, recheck, then recheck!
Make it stop! Princess Luna, can you hear me?!
Make me a dress, Rarity, please?
Go away! You know I don't do that anymore!
Wake me up, Princess Luna, wake me up, wake me uuuup!
Rarity? [gasps] Oh no! The box is... gone? I'm too late! She left for Canterlot!
The key is for you two to distract Rarity long enough for me to put the stitch back in without her noticing.
If we're not too late already.
Oh, my gosh! I can't believe we're goin' to see Sapphire Shores! I'm such a huge fan! I know all her songs!
'Get Your Pony On'!
Ooh, that's one of my favorites!
This isn't a trip to see Sapphire Shores! It's a trip to save my sister from a horrible future!
'Serves Her Right'!
[gasps] How can you say that?! Rarity doesn't deserve that at all!
No, 'Serves Her Right' is another one of Sapphire Shores' songs!
You seriously didn't know that? Don't you listen to her music?!
...I prefer show tunes.
Ugh.
Five, six, seven eight, ba-bam!
Oh, bravo! Fabulous! Magnifique!
One more time, from the top. Let's not embarrass me in front of my favorite designer this time? And a-one, two, three, four!
But you have to let us in! I'm Sapphire Shores' designer's sister! You have to believe us!
Kid, the only thing I have to do is make sure Sapphire Shores doesn't get interrupted all day by fans like you.
But I'm not a fan!
I am!
Me too!
Not helping!
Now, that's how I like it! You rocked it, girls! Get some water and be back in ten. Rar-i-ty, come on up here and show me what you brought me. Sapphire wants to see it and love it!
[straining] Almost...
Oof!
We've gotta get in there, now!
Okay then. Liking what I see so far. So is this the whole shebang?
Actually, I saved the best for last!
And here it is!
You gotta see this with the cinnamon ribbon! You'll love it!
Sweetie Belle?!
You know her?
Uh... [laughs nervously] Ahem. Just a moment!
Oh, good! This is just a dream!
Actually, no. This is very much real.
[sighs] Oh, Luna... I wish none of this ever happened... What am I gonna do?
Let's begin with this. And I think I know how you can even improve it.
I would like to know what in the wide, wide realm of Equestria this stunt of yours is all about, and I want to know now! Do you have any idea how important this job is to me?
Actually, I do. I was upset at you for stealing the spotlight from me at the play, so I pulled out the center stitch to the headpiece so it would fall apart.
What?!
But then I realized I didn't want your future to be ruined forever and ever, so I came back to change it before it was too late! So... here it is. It's all fixed. Please forgive me.
Wait... what is this?
Trust me. Sapphire Shores is gonna love it.
Rarity, this isn't going to work out. You don't get to my level of success without learning to read the signs, and this situation has bad luck written all over it.
I promise you'll absolutely adore the headdress as soon as you see it.
My, it is attractive, but...
Look at the stitching, real close.
Well, I'll be. It's a dolphin! That's my lucky animal! They swim with me in my dreams.
Wherever did you come up with the idea for a dolphin?
Oh, it just came to me... in a dream. I'm sorry I got jealous about those dresses. I know now that you were only trying to help.
Oh, Sweetie, I forgive you! But I never did get to see your play. Any chance I could catch an encore performance?
Uh, I don't think the play went all that good. To be honest, the costumes were the best part.
Awww!
Just one more time? Please?
Alright, but this is the last one.
Woo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo! Woooo!
[spluttering] Who done that?!
Sure wish you'd come swim with us, Granny.
Uh, sorry, dear. I just can't bring myself anywhere near that there swimmin' hole.
How come?
Well, I wasn't always this way...
Time was, I was an aquapony all-star! In fact, I was the only Apple to ever come close to breaking the Equestria high-diving record! Falling six stories into a deep dish pie pan takes a toll on the hindquarters. Oh, I was so sore, took years before I could even look at the water again! Just the idea of swimmin' makes my whole body ache! Besides, these old legs can't even paddle fast enough to stay afloat.
Boy, I sure would hate to be afraid of swimmin'. You think I'll ever be scared of the water?
Aah!
Nope.
Wow, Granny. I can't believe you were a high diver!
The best one in Ponyville!
Do you think I could be a high diver?
Nope.
Absolutely not.
But–
Now you hold your horsefeathers, little seed! I never said bein' a high diver was a smart decision! It's incredibly dangerous!
I know, but–
But nothin'! It is the riskiest, scariest, darn-fool thing I ever did do! That's not to say I didn't wish I was still young and spry and confident, but let's leave the flyin' through the air to the Pegasi.
Wow, when you put it that way, it doesn't sound so fun.
Wow. I wonder where everypony's headed.
Now where in Ponyville do you two think you're goin'?
Aw, quit bein' such a worry-worm and follow your ears!
Come on, Applejack, aren't you curious?
Thank you, one and all, for your attendance, and we guarantee that your time here will not be spent in vain!
In fact, we think it will prove to be the most valuable time you've ever spent!
The Flim Flam Brothers! This should be interestin'.
Eeyup.
Welcome, one and all, to the demonstration of a lifetime!
A demonstration of a better life!
A demonstration of a better time! And if we haven't captured your interest just yet, by the time we've finished, an unfortunate phenomenon practically guarantees that we will!
A phenomenon? What's that?
It's a circumstance perceptible by the senses, but in this case, it's the simple fact that:
There's ailments all around us in everything we touch and see
A sickness that lies waiting there in every breath you breathe
Disease will up and grab you as it crawls from land and sea
It's amazing how infected that the natural world and all its things can be
Now I understand that some of you don't think you're sick.
But twisted hooves and aching joints don't heal all that quick.
Consider just how dangerous this world is! You might...
Slip and fall, break or sprain something here tonight
But luckily for you, we've got the thing you need And it's easier when all you need's the cure The Flim Flam Miracle Curative Tonic Is just what the doctor ordered, I'm sure
Now I know our claims seem fantastical.
Impractical.
Improbable.
Impossible.
And magical!
So we welcome every suffering pony to make their way up to the stage.
Now don't crowd.
And we'll prove our tonic's effectiveness before your very eyes.
You there! Come up here, good sir.
I'll wager you're tired of those crutches, my friend.
Try taking a sip of this!
That's why you're so lucky we've got the thing for you Just come on up, we've always got some more Of the Flim Flam Miracle Curative Tonic
I won't need these crutches to dance out the door
Now how do ya like that?
I don't. There's somethin' funny about this whole thing.
Now some of you may suffer from feelings of despair You're old, you're tired, your legs won't work, there's graying in your hair
Just listen and I'll tell you that you don't need to fear Your ears will work, your muscles tone, your eyes will see so clear
Luckily for us, you've got the thing we need The answer to our problems in a jar The Flim Flam Miracle Curative Tonic Is the greatest ever miracle by far!
Tonic... tonic... tonic...
It cures the reins, the spurs, and the Clydesdale fur blight.
Hooferia and horsentery cured in just a night.
You've got swollen hooves and hindquarters or terrible bridle-bit cleft.
Saunter sitz and gallop plop will give your tail some heft.
Mane loss, hay fever, or terrible tonsillitis.
You heard it here, folks -- this is the only place in all of Equestria you'll find it!
It can make you shorter, taller, or even grow old
But who'd want that?
When with one drink
You can be young again–
SOLD!
Congratulations, Granny Smith! You just made the purchase of a lifetime!
Are you as worried as I am?
Eeyup.
Boy, I just can't believe all the things that Flim Flam Tonic can do!
When somepony says somethin's too good to be true, it usually is.
You mean Granny wasted her money?
Well, I don't know about that, but I don't think there's a tonic in Equestria that can make an old pony young again.
Howdy!
Granny?!
Hang on now! We'll get ya!
Granny, I thought you were too afraid of the water to swim! And, and what about your hip?!
Well, I reckon it might have been a problem before I had myself a dose of that there Flim Flam Tonic!
I'm not so sure that tonic really does anythin'.
I'm glad you're feelin' good, but how do you know it's from the tonic?
I looked out at the water this mornin' and I felt the same terrifyin' aches and pains I always do. But one sip of that magic elixir and it all went away! Why, I might even get a head start on my chores! What do you say, Big Mac-a-doo? Up for a little afternoon applebuckin'?
Uh, no.
Oh, quit your bellyachin'!
Gee, it looks like that tonic works after all! I wonder what's in it.
I think maybe it's time we found out.
So you're just gonna walk up and ask them how it works?
I guess. Though if it's a genuine cure, I don't suppose they'll be too keen on sharin' the recipe.
–out the door!
Wait a second! That's that same pony from before!
Hey!
Now hold it right there, Mister...?
Shill. Silver Shill. Ooh, what do you two want?
Our Granny took some tonic and we want to know how it works.
Granny couldn't swim before, and now she can. Just like you couldn't walk and now you can. But what are you doin' back here? I mean, if the tonic cured you and all...
...Because he's part of the act! It's time for you to tell the truth! You never needed crutches at all, did ya?
I, uh...
Hey! Huh?
Well, if it isn't our most favorite Apple!
What brings you back to our humble abode?
You two charlatans sold my Granny a bottle of tonic, and now she's off actin' like a filly again.
What's so bad about that?
If she keeps gallavantin' around like a yearlin', she's apt to drop from exhaustion or worse! What's more, I know for a fact that your friend here is dressin' up as a different pony every night so he can pretend to be cured!
Well, well, well, that's quite an accusation.
But let's say that it's true...
Hypothetically...
Theoretically...
As I understand, your Granny was a famous aquapony.
The star of the show, once upon a time.
But hasn't set so much as a hoof in the water since.
Until today, that's right.
Well, then even if our tonic were nothing more than a mixture of apple juice and beet leaves...
Hypothetically...
Theoretically...
The fact is that Granny is happier now than before she tried it.
I guess...
So, the question is...
Do you really want to be the pony who takes all that happiness away?
I...
There you are! I've been lookin' all over! Did you find out what's in the tonic?
Honestly, Apple Bloom... as long as it works, I... don't suppose it really matters.
Well, if it doesn't matter to you, then it doesn't matter to me either, sis.
That's the spirit!
Come back anytime!
Hey, Granny! Think you can buck me over the water?
I don't see why not! Come on, Big Mac, toss her this way!
Granny, wait!
Woo-hoo-hoo!
Uh, what were you sayin', dear?
Granny, don't you think you should take it kinda easy?
I've been takin' it easy for too long! And now, thanks to that Flim Flam Tonic, I don't have to!
Granny, you think I could be an aquapony like you?
Of course you can, sapling. There's nothin' to it but to do it!
Well, the Ponyville swim meet is comin' up. We could enter together! A legendary water pony like you? We'd be a cinch to win!
Mm, ee, uh, I don't know... Bein' back in the water is one thing, but a competition is a pony of a different color.
Oh. Okay.
I don't know, Granny. A swim meet sounds pretty safe. And after all, if that tonic lets you swim in a river and a swimmin' hole, a pool should be no problem at all.
Well, I'll be a tart turnover, you are right! All we need now is more tonic!
Welcome, friends, and step right up! The next show starts in five minutes!
But why not buy your tonic now and avoid the rush?
Right this way, good sir!
We'll take the whole case!
"Jinx": Are you saying this stuff actually works?
It seems to work for Granny.
You heard it here first, folks! Flim Flam Miracle Curative Tonic is Granny Smith-tested and Applejack-approved!
"Jinx": If Applejack says it works, that's good enough for me!
Hoo-ha, hee-hee, ha-hoo-ha!
Just remember, you two. The most important thing is to be safe and have fun, right?
Fiddlesticks! With the routine we've been workin' on, I'll be a plum puddin' if we don't win this thing!
Uh... good luck, then!
Luck? Pfft, who needs luck? We got tonic on our side!
Flim Flam's Magical Curative Tonic!
Get your Applejack-approved tonic! Granny Smith drinks it – why shouldn't you?
[sighs] Right.
Now, if'n you'll excuse us, we got some swimmin' to do!
Well, I'll be...
Yeah, but mostly it's the tonic!
That's Flim Flam Miracle Curative Tonic, to be precise.
Buy it now while supplies last.
What are you doin' here?
Oh, things are going so well, Flim and Flam gave me a promotion! Just made my first bit as a salespony. No more costumes for this pony. [beat] This is more of a uniform.
If you say so.
I used to wonder if I was doing the right thing. You know, pretending to be cured, basically lying to folks about this tonic. But thanks to you, I realized that sometimes honesty isn't the best policy.
Thanks to... me?
With Flim Flam's magical Curative Tonic, my Granny can do anything! Just ask Applejack!
No! This has gotta stop! If ponies keep believin' that tonic can do things it can't, who knows what'll happen?
Maybe something like that?
[gasps] Granny! What in blazes does she think she's doin'?!
Granny's gonna break the Equestria high divin' record!
Land sakes!
[yelps] Now what in tarnation did you do that for?!
That was the most fool-pony thing I've ever seen anypony do in all my life! You can't do a dive like that!
Oh, quit your fussin'! I had enough tonic to do a dive ten times as high!
Twenty times, by my count.
Thirty, with a favorable breeze.
I hate to disappoint everypony, but there's no way Granny could have made that dive, because this tonic is a fake!
"Jinx": But you gave it your stamp of approval!
Are you saying you lied?
...I am.
I didn't mean to! But everypony seemed so much happier, I couldn't bring myself to tell you when I found out the tonic wasn't real. I know it was wrong. I just hope with time, I can win back everypony's trust.
But if the tonic is a fake, then how come Granny can swim again, and what about all that aquabatics stuff we just did?
I reckon sometimes you can forget what you're capable of, and it just takes a little extra confidence to remember that it was inside of you all along. But tellin' ponies your tonic can do things it can't is just wrong!
But you just said it boosts confidence!
And that's not all it does, folks–
Yes, it is! In fact, it's not a tonic at all! I know, 'cause I helped make it! Watching Applejack save Granny and then admit to lying, well, that made me realize I was making ponies believe in a thing that just wasn't so!
Believin' in somethin' can help you do amazin' things. But if that belief is based on a lie, eventually it's gonna lead to real trouble.
Thank you, Applejack. I got this through dishonest means. That was a mistake I won't be making again! I'd like you to have it, as a reminder of how you helped me finally see the truth.
I don't know...
Oh, don't worry. I'll track down the pony I sold that worthless tonic to and give him another bit to replace this one! Honest.
I'm sorry, Granny. I hope this doesn't mean you'll stop swimmin'.
Why in tarnation would I do that? I just can't believe those two salesponies had me believin' I could near fly! Hey, where'd they go?
Bein' honest sure gets hard when it seems like the truth might hurt somepony you care about. But I think believin' a lie can end up hurtin' even more. Maybe some ponies don't care about that – but I sure ain't one of them. Now you take it easy there, Granny!
Oh, I plan to! Hoo, ha, ha-whee!
[reading] The magical properties of this spell will only have lasting effects if you focus on—
No! Rainbow Dash! [grunts] How in Equestria does that pony expect to pass her history of the Wonderbolts exam tomorrow if she's wasting time flying?! I'm just gonna fly right up to her and tell her what I think about her lackadaisical approach to studying! Won't she be surprised!
Surprise!
What? Huh? How did you—
Puh-lease, Twilight. That was the worst sneak attack ever.
Wha? But—
I saw you giving me the stink-eye from the ground and heard you flying towards me and muttering from a mile away.
Well, if you heard me "muttering", then you must know what I was "muttering" about.
Yeah, yeah, the Wonderbolts history test. No big deal.
No. Big deal. Really big deal. It's a test! A test that will determine if you can join the newly-formed Wonderbolts Reserves, and being part of the Wonderbolts Reserves means you'll have the opportunity to live your dream as a Wonderbolt! This is the most important test of your life!
Twilight, not everypony gets all freaked out about tests like you.
I do not get "all freaked out" about tests!
Uh, seriously? Your freakouts are so epic, you sing whole freakout arias about freaking out.
Fine, I may tend to take my tests a little seriously, but that doesn't mean you shouldn't be studying for yours! Oooh! And I know just the pony who can help you: me! This is gonna be so much fun!
Sure. Fun.
[yelps] Wha– huh?
This is the most complete—
And ginormous!
—book on the history of the Wonderbolts.
Okay, but how am I supposed to get what's in there into here?
With my handy-dandy study checklist, of course!
Of course.
First up, reading and highlighting. Reading and highlighting is the foundation of any good study method. It allows the student to hone in and boil down on what's really important, separating the good from the bad, the wheat from the chaff, getting to the crux of things. Let's see what you've got so far!
Um...
Huh? Hm, by highlighting everything, you don't really separate the wheat from the chaff... Or the good from the bad. Hey, I am not that tall!
[sighs] Okay, Rainbow, clearly reading and highlighting is not your style of studying, so let's move on to the tried and true: History lecture! Yes, Rainbow?
Is it snack time?
No.
Recess?
No.
[sighs] Can't we just watch the history of the Wonderbolts movie?!
No! Now, just get comfortable, and experience the magic of learning. Ahem. Prior to the great Celestia/Luna rift, there was no need for the Earth, Unicorn, Pegasi, or E.U.P., Guard.
But after Luna's banishment, the Protective Pony Platoons were formed. On the anniversary of the first Celestial year of peace, a celebration was held.
Headed by General Firefly, an elite team of aerial performers were chosen to help celebrate this auspicious occasion. The first performance was so full of energy, so highly charged, that magical lightning showered down on the crowd. Everypony was so filled with amazement and wonder that General Firefly dubbed them "the Wonderbolts"!
Rainbow Dash, can you repeat any of my lesson?
History lecture... nope. [sighs] Okay, Rainbow– Rainbow? Rainbow Dash!
Here!
Let's move on to my favorite style of learning: flashcards!
Oh, does that mean I'll learn in a flash?
One can only hope. [inhales] Colonel Purple Dart, the leader of the Wonderbolts in the Fourth Celestial Era, was known for his– wha?! Rainbow! Did you see what happened?
What? No! I was... riveted by your captivating cards!
Hmm... After becoming the official flying squadron for Princess Celestia, she honored them with– Gotcha!
Got what?
The original Wonderbolts lightning bolt insignia was– [yelps] Rainbow Dash, you could've hurt me!
With a spit wad? Really?
A spit wad to the eye would have been no laughing matter!
Well, if you can horse around like this, then you clearly must be ready for the test.
Clearly.
Well then, I guess you're also ready for a...
Pop quiz!
Bring it!
The initials E.U.P. stand for what?
Ernie's undercooked pancakes.
The original aerial team performed for...?
Celestia's cereal celebration.
The Wonderbolts were given their name by this famous Pegasus. Who is she? [to herself] Please don't say Colonel Waffle...
Hello? General Blazing Donut Glaze! [scoffs] So, did I ace it or what?
Or what. You didn't get one answer correct.
What? But– but how?
I don't know. I've never heard answers so wrong! And so breakfast-related!
If you had taken the official test today...
[gasps] My dreams of being in the Wonderbolts Reserve would have been totally crushed! [gasps] What am I gonna do? I'm running out of time! I don't know any of this history! I'm gonna fail!
I'm gonna fail, I'm gonna fail, I'm gonna fail! And it's all your fault!
My fault?! I'm the one helping you!
Maybe your famous study methods aren't all they're cracked up to be, eh, teacher?!
Excuse me, I've used them to study for many a test and passed!
Yeah, right.
Do you know the name of the premiere Wonderbolts choreographer?
Uh, well—
Commander Easyglider. Do you know how many Pegasi flew in the original squad?
Um—
Seven! Do you know Princess Celestia's favorite flight pattern?! The Icaranian Sun Salutation! See? I could pass the test.
Fine! Rub it in, why don't ya? Besides, I don't see why I have to take this lousy test anyway. I've proven I'm one of the best flyers around.
Knowing their origin and being able to properly represent them for all of Equestria is just as important.
Yeah, right. Some history buff like you must have made that up to bring us flyers down.
Knowing history actually is beneficial, Rainbow.
[blows raspberry] Beneficial for eggheads!
Girls.
Well, this egghead knows history and can fly. Maybe I should become a Wonderbolt.
Just 'cause you've got wings, doesn't mean you can fly!
Girls!
You're barely able to just get off the ground!
Girls! Stop! Now, is that any way to talk to a friend?
Sorry.
Yeah, sorry.
Don't you have more important things to do? Like prepare Rainbow for her big test?
I've tried everything, Fluttershy, but none of my study methods work for her.
Well, no offense to your teaching methods, Twilight, but I think I may have a way to help Rainbow.
Oh, who's that, who's that?
Celestia and Luna, back when they were happy.
Uh... now what?
Gummy's an Earth pony, Winona's a unicorn, and Tank is a Pegasus.
They're the E.U.P., helping to protect the Princess.
Uh, how are you getting all this?
Oh, no!
Stop, stop, stop! That was aw—
Awesome! I give it three woohoo's! Woohoo, woohoo, woohoo! And an extra "woo" for good measure! Woo!
Well, I give it a "whoa, whoa, what?" I'm totally confused and I just wanna go home... Whoa– hey!
Whoa your woes there, woeful. Some ponies learn through theatrical presentation, but other ponies learn through musical intervention.
[beatboxing, turntable scratching noises] Well, back in ancient times, there were the Wonderbolts of old A general named Firefly, amazing and so...
[Pinkie Pie, Goldengrape, and Dr. Hooves] Bold!
She brought them all together, spreading unity...
[Pinkie Pie, Goldengrape, and Dr. Hooves] In flight!
Performing at their very best with wonder...
[Pinkie Pie, Goldengrape, and Dr. Hooves] And with might!
There's Admiral Fairweather and the Colonel Purple...
[Pinkie Pie, Goldengrape, and Dr. Hooves] Dart!
Gave Wonderbolts a bit of steel along with...
[Pinkie Pie, Goldengrape, and Dr. Hooves] Lots of heart!
An admiral named Fairy Flight and general called...
[Pinkie Pie, Goldengrape, and Dr. Hooves] Flash!
Helped the 'bolts fly super high...
[Pinkie Pie, Goldengrape, and Dr. Hooves] With style and panache!
Commander Easyglider was the real cream of...
[Pinkie Pie, Goldengrape, and Dr. Hooves] The crop!
For with her wicked moves, the Wonderbolts...
[Pinkie Pie, Goldengrape, and Dr. Hooves] Soared to the top!
Wonderbolts, yeah! Wonderbolts...
[Pinkie Pie, Goldengrape, and Dr. Hooves] Huh!
Wonderbolts, yeah! Wonderbolts...
[Pinkie Pie, Goldengrape, and Dr. Hooves] Unh!
That is my rappin' history of the Wonderbolts!
So, d'you get it?
Yes, Pinkie Pie! [poorly imitating rap-style sounds] General This and Colonel That, they're the Wonderbolts, something that rhymes with that!
That... was pretty terrible.
What?! No... really? But I've gotta learn this stuff! Now!
And I am just the pony to help!
Rarity, you look ridiculous.
I am going to ignore that comment out of my desire to help you.
Good luck.
Get ready, Rainbow Dash, for I am going to take you on an historical adventure in fashion! I am now modeling the rather unattractive, and frankly itchy, original Wonderbolts flying costume. Fortunately, thanks to the vision of Flair d'Mare, the Wonderbolts ensemble became more streamlined in a wonderfully breathable fabric. Of course, there were fashion hits... and misses. Just look at those dreadful bell-bottoms. What were ponies thinking?
I dunno. I bet General Flash rocked these thangs!
[yelps] Pinkie, you're real!
Of course I'm real! I mean I'm not the real General Flash, the tenth leader of the Wonderbolts, but I, Pinkie, am really real.
And I'm Admiral Fairy Flight, from the seventh squadron.
And of course you recognize Commander Easyglider.
And I'm sportin' some sort of getup worn by Colonel Purple Dart.
Just look at us.
Look at us.
Look at me!
It's too much for my eyes!
Now, don't you fret, Rainbow. This fashion show nonsense wouldn't help me learn nothin', either.
Really? Well, what special study trick do you have, AJ?
Who, me? Oh, I got nothing.
Why, I could tell you every little thing there is to know about the history of apples, but I picked all that up over years in the field as a labor of love. How much time you got?
Twelve hours.
Oh, then you are up a creek.
Oh, I think we should just go back to old-fashioned studying.
What about our play?
Just look at these costumes! Surely something resonates with your inner Wonderbolt!
And Granny Smith discovered the first granny smith in Fillydelphia, when she was just a filly!
Commander Easyglider was the real cream of the crop—
Pinkie, stop rapping! That isn't gonna help Rainbow!
Well, I suggest you put down your silly cards of flash, For I know that they cannot help our good friend Rainbow Dash!
Enough! No rapping, no cards, no costumes, no play, and no apples! I am never gonna pass this test, ever! Just forget it!
[panting] Rainbow, I'm sorry about all that! We didn't mean to overwhelm you!
It's okay. You were just trying to help. It's just too bad I'm too dumb to learn anything.
You are not dumb! You just learn differently!
If by "differently" you mean "not at all", then you're totally right.
No, that's totally wrong.
See? Wrong again.
I don't know anypony that's read more Daring Do books than you.
Well, that's not going to get me into the Wonderbolts.
And your knowledge of jokes and pranks is only rivaled by Pinkie.
Great. My years of being a class clown prevented me from actually learning how to learn!
That's not what I meant. You're smart, creative, inventive, and– ugh! Hey! I know you're upset, but you don't need to—
Whoa... I almost slammed into that!
I know. You were jabbering on so much you didn't even notice.
But how did you notice? You were listening and talking to me the whole time!
Ha-hah, you're such a rookie. An experienced flyer like me knows how to multitask.
While you fly?
It's essential! Yes, I was paying attention to you, but was also scanning the sky and the ground for any problems.
Really?
Flying's not just flying!
In order to stay safe in the sky, I've got to hear and see everything down to the littlest details. For instance, I saw Apple Bloom, Sweetie Belle and Scootaloo come out of Sugarcube Corner, and from the looks of it, they had carrot cupcakes with sprinkles. And I'm thinking Big Mac sold a huge order of apples to Filthy Rich, 'cause I heard him give a very hearty—
"Eeyup".
I always make note of everything when I fly. No biggie.
[gasps] Oh, my gosh!
What?
Gotta go!
Thanks for meeting me, everypony.
What is it, Twilight?
We have to help Rainbow Dash.
Yes, but how?
We've tried every kind of studying. My way, your way...
But we haven't tried Rainbow Dash's way.
Hmm, I'm intrigued.
Hey, Rainbow. Wanna go for a fly?
[sighs] Sure. Got nothing better to do. Didn't we just do this?
Yes, but like you said, I'm such a newbie, I need all the practice I can get.
Yeah, well, I'm sure you'll become a great flyer in no time. After all, you're good at everything.
So... what's going on?
Oh, nothing. Just getting my dreams crushed.
Uh... read any good books lately?
[sighs] Just history books. I'd tell you what they were about, but my brain is as dry as a rock.
Maybe I'll go work there as I have no other plans for the rest of my life.
Oh, come on now, Rainbow. You can't give up on your dream!
Seems my dream has given up on me. Maybe I'll learn to shine shoes, sell hats, dig ditches...
Or maybe you'll be a Wonderbolt.
Twilight, give it up! I have.
So, what do you remember about that flight?
[sighs] Nothing important. Except after Luna was banished to the moon, Celestia needed protective forces, so Earth, unicorn, and Pegasi formed the E.U.P. Guard of the Protective Pony Platoons.
Yes...?
[getting happier] And, at the celebration of the first Celestial year of peace, an elite flying squadron performed, headed by General Firefly, who later named the group the Wonderbolts!
Uh-huh...?
Commander Easyglider established flight choreography that is still used by the Wonderbolts today!
Yes!
I... I know the history! I know it all! But how in Equestria did that happen?
You learned it!
Yeah, I got that! But how?
Well, on our first flight, I discovered that you catalog everything that happens all around you when you're flying, without even thinking about it! Don't you see?
I made use of your special skills by enlisting everypony to help you learn the history of the Wonderbolts!
I, Princess Celestia, banish you, Princess Luna, to the moon.
Noooooo!
Earth!
Unicorn!
Pegasus!
E!
U!
P!
Eeyup!
Let us celebrate our first Celestial year of peace!
Yeah, let's party! I'm General Firefly! Gee, my costume is itchy and unattractive, but I'm gonna assemble an awesome flying team!
I'll call them... the Wonderbolts!
Streamlined style by Flair d'Mare!
S04E21 Unnamed Pegasus Stallion # Admiral Fairweather!
"Downdraft": Colonel Purple Dart!
Admiral Fairy Flight!
S04E21 Unnamed Pegasus Stallion # General Flash!
"High Note": Commander Easyglider!
The history of the Wonderbolts!
Oh my gosh, oh my gosh, oh my gosh! Thank you! Thank you all so much!
You're welcome, but it all came from you. You learned without knowing you're learning. Your main focus is flying, but then your brain is also absorbing lots of other information! It's actually really brilliant!
Ha, I always knew I was brilliant!
Rainbow Dash finally learned the history of the Wonderbolts, but she's not the only pony that needed a lesson; I needed to learn something just as important. One way of learning isn't better than another. After all, every pony is unique and individual.
Yeeeaah! Whoo!
[squeals] Yes! Best day ever! We're all going to the Rainbow Falls Traders Exchange! And not just going – we're accompanying a princess on an official royal duty!
Please, it's not that big of a deal. There always has to be a princess at the Exchange. Last year was Princess Cadance, this year it's me. It's just a formality. I'm sure none of the other ponies will even notice I'm here.
Wow, look over there, a princess!
Oh, this is amazing!
Could be wrong, but I think they might've noticed.
Oh, my goodness!
You said it. The Rainbow Falls Traders Exchange is simply divine. You can get anything you want here!
If'n you got the goods to trade for it.
[grunts] Wha? Nooo! Thanks, Twilight. Whew. One ding, nick or dent, and this Power Ponies comic book wouldn't be in perfect mint condition anymore. And if you want to trade for a mint comic, you gotta have a mint comic.
I guess a pony who's here on official princess business has to expect a little fussin'.
There's a pony here who's got a signed first edition of Daring Do and the Quest for the Sapphire Statue, and I'm gonna get it! I've been able to get first editions of all of the Daring Do books, except this one! Nopony's ever put together a whole set, and I'm gonna be the first! If it hasn't been traded yet... It's the only one in all of Equestria!
Oh no! I'd really hate to see you disappointed. I did want to trade this bear call I've got for a bird whistle, but getting that book seems so important to you, so if you need me to help you first...
Normally I'd say I don't need any help, but you're right. This is really important. I've gotta get that book!
Well, I'm off to take a gander at some of the vintage stalls.
Did you say vintage? Why, old and rare items are so in style right now! I'm hoping to get a vintage item as well. I just hope I brought enough to trade.
I know what you mean, Rarity. Hey! Why don't we pool our trade stashes?
Pool?
That way, if one of us finds somethin' real valuable she can't live without...
[gasps] She'll definitely be able to get it! Who could say no to exchanging a single object for such a huge assortment of items? Oh, yes! That is absolutely brilliant! I'm so glad I have a friend like you, Applejack.
I feel the same way.
Then let's go shopping!
Um, shouldn't your princessness be headed to the royal box seats?
I may be the princess on duty, but I don't think that means I have to sit up there all alone doing nothing. Ever since I became a princess, Celestia's been sending me more books to read than ever. The library's overflowing, so I figured while we're here, I might as well trade away some books I don't need anymore.
Mm-hm!
[gasps] There it is! The first edition of Daring Do and the Sapphire Statue! It hasn't been traded yet! [to stallholder] Lucky for you, because I've brought my most valuable possession to trade for it: My lucky horseshoe!
"Teddie Safari": I don't want it.
What?!
"Teddie Safari": It's just a rusty old horseshoe. That's not worth anything to me.
But, but how is Rainbow Dash going to get the book she really wants?
"Teddie Safari": Well, she's not.
"Teddie Safari": Unless... she can get me that.
Aww, an Orthros! How cute!
"Teddie Safari": The pony running the ancient beasts stall doesn't want anything I've got. But if you can get me the Orthros, I'll trade you the book for it.
You got it! [to Fluttershy] I don't know how, but somehow, we're gonna get that Orthros.
Oh, Applejack, I am so glad I found you.
Me too! You're not gonna believe it!
[simultaneously] I found a super valuable vintage item I just have to have, and all it's gonna cost is all our stuff! [beat] Uh-oh.
So, where is this valuable vintage item you want to trade everything we have for?
There!
Where?
Right there!
But... that's a dented old pie tin.
A dented vintage pie tin. The metal they used to fashion this one helps cook the pies up to five seconds faster! They don't make 'em like this anymore!
I'm so glad you showed that to me, darling...
...because once you see what I've found, you won't want to waste our trade goods on that. [giggles] Just look at this gorgeous vintage brooch. It's one of a kind!
It looks exactly like the one you're already wearin'.
Well, yes, they may look the same, but I know it's older, and that's what makes it so much more divine!
But that doesn't make a lick of sense! Why, I'd wager if I switched them up, you wouldn't even know the difference!
Oh, don't be silly, of course I would!
So which is the vintage one?
That one, of course.
Hah, you're bluffin'!
Am I? How can you tell?
Well... because... [groans] I can't, 'cause the one you wanna waste our whole stash on is exactly the same as the one you already got! There's no way anypony would notice the difference!
I'd say it's a lot more likely they'd notice that than some dented tin that cooked a pie a whole two seconds faster!
It's five seconds faster!
Yes, such a good two-headed boy. Yes, you are!
Stop that! C'mon, don't you start now, too!
Okay, I can see you're busy, so I'll give it to you straight. I need to trade this horseshoe for... that.
Nope.
Aww.
Down, boy! Watch out for the lamp!
Well, I could use another lamp.
A whole stand filled with Discord-shaped lamps? Seriously?!
They really do have everything at the Traders Exchange.
Will you trade a lamp for my horseshoe so I can trade it for an Orthros and get my book?
No. But I'd trade it for an antique chicken.
Great! [beat] What's an antique chicken?
"Match Game": Oh, I got all kinds of antique chicken statues. I got your blue hens, speckled grays, your-
Okay, cool! So will you trade one for a horseshoe so I can trade it for a lamp and then trade it for an Orthros so I can get my book?
"Match Game": Well, lemme think... Uh, no.
Aww.
"Match Game": But I'd gladly trade one of my chickens for a crystal chalice.
[panting] Hold on a sec. [inhales] We need a crystal chalice to trade for a chicken to trade for a lamp to trade for an Orthros. So what are you willing to trade for it? I'm guessing it's gotta be some crazy thing way across the Exchange.
"Amethyst Gleam": Actually, I could use a slightly rusty old horseshoe.
Yeah, like where am I gonna find– wait, I've got one of those! Now that we've got the chalice, this is gonna be a cinch!
Do you really think so?
All we gotta do is bring this thing to the chicken stand and we are–
You want me to trade all my books for a broken pen? Alright, fine. You got yourself a–
Stop! What are you doing?!
I was trying to get rid of all the books I don't need anymore.
For that? Do you reaaaaally want that?
Well, not really, but I'm running out of library space, so–
Ohmygosh, ohmygosh, ohmygosh! I can't believe that almost happened! But luckily, it didn't happen, thanks to me.
What are you talking about?
Y'know, if you want to go check out the rest of the Exchange and trade whatever you brought...
Nope, I just came to pony-watch! I'm not going anywhere. I won't let you make a mistake like that again! Hey, everypony, step right up! Do not walk! Gallop over here for your chance to trade for authentic, one-of-a-kind, official princess merchandise!
Well, that took forever.
I just hope it looks okay.
"Match Game": This is perfect!
Oh no! The pony we're supposed to trade the chicken statue to didn't tell us what kind he wanted! Okay, look. I'm fast. I'll fly over to the lamp stand and find out what kind of chicken he wants. Just don't let anypony trade for any chicken while I'm gone, okay?
Um, well, okay! Um, I can do that, I think. [to Crusoe Palm] Um, well, maybe you shouldn't get one of those? You know... unless you really want to...
[groans] Beat it! You go. I'll stay here.
Well, since we can't both get what we want, I will be the better friend. You take our trade goods and get what you want.
I'm an amazin' friend! So even though it's for somethin' that don't seem valuable at all, you take our stash.
How dare you let me get what I want. What kind of friend do you think I am? You are going to get what you want!
No, you are!
No, you are!
These books made Twilight the princess she is. Before that, she was nothing – a big, fat zero!
Hey!
Then she read these books, and voila! Princess! So who wants to start the bidding?
Uh, just a moment, please! Pinkie, I appreciate your help and all, but I'm not sure I'm comfortable with this. Nopony should trade for my books just because I'm a princess. I'm not better than anypony else!
[hushed] I know you're not better than everypony! Just leave this to me! [to crowd, normal] Did I mention that Princess Twilight got these books from Princess Celestia?
Whoa, wait, you don't mean–
Oh, that's right! Double princess!
There he is!
Look, I know it's your break and all, but you've gotta open your stand so we can trade you for a lamp!
[stomach rumbles] Sorry, girls. Been trading all day. My belly's tellin' me it's time to eat an oatburger.
Oh come on, please?
Pretty pretty please?
Sorry, belly says 'no'.
But the Exchange ends at sundown!
No!
I've got an idea. Next! Next! Next! Next! Next!
We're home free!
As long as this thing doesn't drown us in slobber.
Oh, he's just an affectionate little two-headed fellow. Aren't you, little boy?
No, I insist. You go fetch what you want, 'cause that's the kind of tried and true friend I am.
Well! I am way too generous to let you out-friend me like that!
We gotta hurry! [gasps] We're never gonna get to the Daring Do stand through this crowd in time!
Come on!
My bear call!
We gotta go!
Of course. It's just a bear call. There's nothing I could have traded it for that's more valuable to me than you.
[sighs] Okay, the Exchange is almost over, but we did it. We traded a crystal chalice for an antique chicken...
And the chicken for a lamp...
And the lamp for an Orthros, just like you asked.
So there you go! Now where's my book?
"Teddie Safari": Yeah, you know, the thing is... I don't really want an Orthros anymore.
But... what do we do now?
Oh goodness, oh goodness!
Argh! Ugh...
Good boy!
Hey! You said you wanted an Orthros!
"Teddie Safari": I've been watching that thing over at the ancient beast booth! It's crazy! I don't want one in my house!
There, there, that's a good Orthros. You just have to know how to train them. With a little patient training and a big slobber mop, they can be a wonderful household pet.
"Teddie Safari": [laughing] All right, all right. I'll trade you.
Yes!
"Teddie Safari": If she comes and stays with us in Manehattan until it's trained!
Gosh, training an Orthros takes a long time. I'll probably be gone from Ponyville for... I don't even know how many moons! But... if that is what you really want...
"Teddie Safari": So we got a fair deal?
Of course it's a deal! Yeah-eah, whoo! [squeals] I did it, I did it! Fluttershy, can you believe it? Oh no. what did I do?!
Who's got something valuable enough to trade for Princess Twilight's princess books that she got from Princess Celestia? Did I say "princess"?
Over here, over here!
Oh, come on! These are the books the princess would sit up with all night, with nothing to read by but the light of her own horn! Ooh, now that looks fun– but not fun enough! These are the books that made Twilight the princess she is! So who's got what it takes to trade for them?
Well, when you put it like that...
Oh, yes, they are.
But I thought you wanted to get rid of them!
None of those ponies had anything valuable enough to trade for my books. Not because these books belong to a princess, but because they helped make me who I am. Just like you said. This was the one I was so absorbed in the day Spike decided he owed Applejack a life debt. And this one reminds me of the day I got it – which was the day I met you. I may not ever need to read these again, but that doesn't mean they don't have value. I realize that now, thanks to you, Pinkie.
I told you I'd take care of everything!
Twilight! I need you to say a trade wasn't fair! Fast!
I've heard what you both have to say, and I'm sorry, Rainbow Dash, but my hooves are tied. You said it was a fair trade.
Yeah, I said it, but I was wrong! I did want that book, a lot. I said I wanted it more than anything in all of Equestria. But there's no thing that's worth as much to me as a friend. I might have forgotten that for a little bit, but it's true. Which means there's no way this trade can be fair!
"Teddie Safari": Oh, come on, that's... the sweetest thing I've ever heard. Okay, the trade's off!
[in distance] Woo-hoo!
I know it's not the pie tin you were after, but I hope you like it. It's the rustiest piece of junk I could get.
Well, I took my half of our stash and got you this!
Ohhh!
And I know you're gonna love it, 'cause you already have a bunch of ones that look exactly the same sittin' in the drawer doin' nothin'. So that should settle it once and for all which of us is the better friend.
Oh, come on! You both gave up what you wanted to get something for each other! That's the coolest thing a friend can do. Trust me, I know.
Hey, where's your double-doggie?
I traded it for something way better.
Well, what do you know? My copy of Daring Do and the Sapphire Statue. It's just a beat up old paperback, not a one-of-a-kind first edition...
[gasps] Even better, because I can read this one with all my friends!
Hear ye, hear ye! The Ponyville Foal and Filly Fair is almost ready to begin!
Just because the attendees are young, doesn't mean they don't deserve my very best creative work. Why, this puppet theater is going to be the talk of the Foal and Filly Fair!
How could it not be? [dreamily] You're the one making it...
Oh! But I couldn't have done it without the help of one of my dearest and most supportive friends! You are my favorite dragon.
Your favorite dragon? Aw, gee...
The hours have been long, the work taxing beyond compare, but it will all be worth it when we hear those three little words!
This is awful!
Awful?!
And completely unusable. Hmmm... Ugh! It doesn't travel! Oh, there's no room for my puppets! It appears I won't have a traveling puppet theater to use after all.
I don't know what that guy was talking about. This thing is perfect!
So that puppeteer didn't like your exquisitely crafted best puppet theater in the history of puppet theaters puppet theater. [beat] You can just contribute something else to the Foal and Filly Fair.
Argh, there's gotta be something in here somewhere.
It's not "who", it's "what"! Like, what can help Rarity make something in time for the fair? She really, really, really wants to make a creative contribution. She said I'm her favorite dragon, so it's up to me to come through for her in her time of need. There's gotta be some kind of spell that'll do the trick.
Come on, help a dragon out!
Ugh! It's not for me! It's for Rarity! The one who made you that bow tie you like so much?
Okay, I get it.
You don't think we should use magic– What is that?
What? If I wasn't supposed to have it, it wouldn't be so easy to get. And it's covered in spikes, like me.
"Inspiration Manifestation: Instantly brings ideas to life."
I'm likin' the looks of this one. Hmmm.
Rarity!
Leave me be! Can't you see how distraught, disappointed, and downtrodden I still am?
But I brought you something.
Unless it's another carton of vanilla oat swirl or word that the festival has been cancelled, I don't think I'm interested.
It's magic!
Spike, precious scales, I already have magic.
But not the kind that can help you create something in time for the fair. This can!
I suppose it's worth a try. "From in the head to out in the world, every thought to action. Hold close this book and through its spell, you'll start a chain reaction. Projecting forth whatever beauty you see. Only when true words are spoken will you finally be set free."
Did it work?
Hm, there's only one way to find out.
[gasps] Oh, my! I thought about making this a much more beautiful spell book, and I have!
Dear, dear Spike! Here I was about to give up, but like a true friend, you've come through with flying colors! Come! We must find the puppeteer right away, so that I may provide him with the most fabulous theater he's ever imagined! Or, should I say, that I've ever imagined.
Ah, Miss Rarity, come to see the show, I presume? You'll notice I had to make do in light of your recent failure to produce a functioning theater.
Oh, but I think you'll find the new one I've created will be much more to your liking!
[mumbling] Ah, well, it is gorgeous, but that was never the problem now, was it? Oh, well, this one does seem to travel. Plenty of room for my puppets... I say, Miss Rarity, I don't know how you managed to do so in such a short amount of time, but you seem to have redeemed yourself. How did you manage to do so in such a short time?
As a matter of fact, she used a s–
A good designer never reveals her tricks.
Thank you again, Spike, for being such a dear friend and finding this book for me!
My pleasure. Well, guess I can return it now that the fair's over.
Oh, yes, of course. I've made my creative contribution as I'd hoped to do, and all is well! Uh, then again, perhaps I should keep it just a skotch longer... You don't mind, do you, Spike?
Of course not! See you tomorrow! [to Owlowiscious] What? She'll keep it for a few more hours, no harm in that.
Rarity?
Whoa!
Spike, I'm so glad you're here!
Whoa! Are... you okay?
Oh, I've never been better! This book you've given me is amazing! Why, I, I, I, I've been up all night just creating and creating and creating and creating! I've completed my fall line for the next fifteen seasons!
Wow!
But then I started thinking, 'why stop there'? Oh, Spike, I've always thought this town of ours could use a few beautifying upgrades, and with this book, I can make that happen with such ease! You will support me in this endeavor by letting me keep the book just a little longer?
Of course I will!
[panting] What do you say we get a little breakfast before we get started?
No time for breakfast! I want to get started right away!
Technically, we do have time, because with that book held close, you can just make things– Rarity?
Now, this is exactly what I'm talking about! Why, that cart hasn't an ounce of stylish flair!
My eyes playin' tricks on me again?
What in rhubarb pie just happened?
Isn't it gorgeous?
It's amazing! You should ask Applejack if she wants you to give all the Apple family carts a makeover!
Oh, I don't really think I need to ask permission, darling. Everyone loves surprises, especially when they're gorgeous ones!
You're right! Everypony does love surprises.
[hushed] We shouldn't even tell anypony that it's me who's behind all the fabulous changes I'll be making! [giggles] Won't that be a fun little secret for the three of us to share?
The... three of us?
You, me, and the book, of course. My marvelous, marvelous book!
...Of course.
Promise me you won't say a word to anypony?
[muffled] You got it!
I knew I could count on you, Spike. And I also know just what I want to do next!
I've always thought Rainbow Dash could use a little more glamor, and now look at her! Cloud-busting with style! [short laugh] Moving on!
She'll be fine. It's just a dress. Uh, wait for your favorite dragon!
La la-la la-la la-la la la... There you go, Mr. Robin!
Don't you look so content in your little house–
[gasps] Oh, my goodness!
You're lost? No, not that way, that looks like it's the door to a... bedroom. Try that one over there. No, no, that leads to a...
Shoe closet? Oh, dear. Maybe try the staircase? Oh, no-no-no, the other staircase.
Isn't it gorgeous?
It's probably the most beautiful birdhouse ever created.
Go on.
I'm just not sure how the bird feels about it.
Pfft, what does a bird know about architectural design? What matters is what you think, Spike. And you love it. Don't you?
Of course I do. It's so... [beat] Rarity.
It is, isn't it? Ooh!
Oh, adorable! But it could use a touch of class, don't you think?
Oh yeah, definitely.
This party doesn't even seem to have a proper theme. Let's do something about that, shall we?
You've already made things look really really great. Maybe you should stop while you're ahead?
You're right, Spike! There's so much to do elsewhere!
Right! Elsewhere...
Just one more little thing before we go...
Why, this party is certain to make the society page now. Won't Pinkie Pie be pleased?
Happy, happy day to– huh?!
I am simply buzzing with ideas. Simply buzzing!
That's great! But, uh, you've been at this for a while now. How 'bout you take a break? Give that brilliant mind of yours a rest?
Don't be silly! I'm not going to stop now! Why, I won't stop until every inch of Ponyville has benefited from my creative vision! Starting with you, Spike!
You look fabulous!
All because of you, heh...
Anything for my favorite dragon and most supportive friend. Come, there's so much more to do!
[gasps] Oh no, not you too!
What do you mean, not me too?
Oh. Judging by that outfit, I thought for sure you'd–
What? This? I just wanted to try out a new look.
You like?
Hmm... Well, in that case, have you seen anypony suspicious around?
Uh, nope.
Princess Twilight, the gazebo has been turned into solid crystal, and two ponies are now trapped inside its walls!
No! I made a promise to Rarity to keep this to myself!
[sighs] But you're right, Owlowiscious. I have to tell. And once I do, I can forget Rarity thinking of me as her most supportive friend... I can forget Rarity thinking of me as a friend at all...
[sighs] I can't do it. I promised I'd keep all of this between the three of us!
Of course it's weird she meant her, me and the spell book. But– The spellbook! Of course! If I can get it away from her, I bet she won't be able to use its magic anymore! Oh, come on, it's the perfect plan! I... just have to figure out which way she went.
I can't see!
I'm thinking she's headed this way.
[giggling] What do you think you're doing?!
Uh, me? I was just, uh... basking in your creative radiance.
Oh, Spike, you do say the nicest things.
Thanks.
Now, where was I? Oh yes! Gold-plated rooftops for everypony!
Spike!
I have just had the most marvelous idea!
[gulps] [gasps] Of course you have. You're Rarity.
My work here in Ponyville is nearly complete. Don't you think it's time the rest of Equestria benefited from my creative vision?
Absolutely!
Oh, yeah, we should definitely go by–
Huh?! How... how did you... do that?
Why, whatever do you mean?
The book! It's– I mean– you don't– it's gone! The book is gone!
Why would I do anything with your book? We're friends! It... it was probably the owl!
But, wait... I don't seem to need it anymore, do I? Yes... yes...! I can feel its magic flowing within me now! I'm so excited! I'm so excited!
[quietly] I'm so scared.
Oh, the places we'll go, Spike! Manehattan, Fillydelphia, Canterlot! And there you'll be by my side, just as you've always been here in Ponyville, your constant praise and adoration driving me to even greater heights, until there isn't an inch of Equestria that hasn't been utterly transformed by my creative genius!
...No.
What did you say?
I said 'no'. You've been changing things, but you haven't been making them better. I should have told you the truth at the very beginning, but I didn't because I was trying to be a supportive friend. [sighs] But instead, I let you become something awful.
Awful?
Ugh... what happened?
Rarity! You're okay?
I... I think so... though by the looks of it, something quite terrifying has happened to Ponyville.
You happened.
Me?
The last part of the spell!
[flashback] Only when true words are spoken will you finally be set free.
The spell took over you, and you wanted to change everything in Equestria. I was afraid to tell you how I really felt about it, but then I... I told you the truth.
Dearest Spike, you should never be afraid to tell me the truth. We're friends, remember?
Today I learned how important it is to be honest with your friends when they're doing something that you don't think is right. A true friend knows that you're speaking up because you care about them.
Spike. Never, ever, ever, ever take another book out of the library at the castle without asking! Princess Cadance and Princess Luna have much better things to do than help me clean up Ponyville! Do you have any idea how hard it was to reverse that much dark magic?!
[chuckles] You don't look so good.
What? I'm just being honest! It's what good friends do!
This just got real!
Listen up, gang! We're almost there, so I've got a few things to say. First off, who here besides me thinks this is the best Equestria Games delegation in Ponyville history?
Yeah!
And no matter what your sport is, we gotta give it our best, because we've all got a genuine shot at Ponyville gold!
...With the possible exception of Bulk Biceps, Fluttershy, and me. I mean, we're good and all, but we're up against the Wonderbolts in the aerial relay, so gold's kind of a stretch. Let's not kid ourselves.
Don't feel bad, Rainbow Dash! We have absolutely no shot at getting gold either!
Uh, that's because you're carrying the flag for Ponyville in the opening ceremony. There are no winners.
Winners or not, we still have the chance to be awesome!
That's the spirit! You hear that, everypony? Winners or not, we all still have the chance to be awesome!
But, uh, let's still try to win lots and lots of stuff too, 'kay?
[straining] It's all in there, gang! Leave it to Spike, champion gear-carrier for all your gear-carrying needs.
And the Ponyville flag? You sure? And what about the flagpole?
In with the portable ramp! Whoa!
Give it a rest, Apple Bloom.
Aw, she's just nervous, that's all. Perfectly understandable. Whenever I'm afraid I'll forget something or start to panic, I have a simple trick. I count to ten, and by the time I'm done, I've calmed myself enough to get the job done right every time. Easy-peasy, cider-squeezy!
Hey! Put me down!
What's going on?!
Spike! Are you all right?
A thousand pardons, O Great and Honorable Spike the Brave and Glorious.
Huh? Who the what now?
[to guards] Thanks for bringing Spike to us. [to Spike] It's okay, Spike. We'll have our hoofponies go back for your bags.
Uh, can they hang back a second and tell me what's going on first?
[eating] Mm! So the ponies here think I'm some kind of hero, huh? [to Fleur De Verre] More of the green ones, please? I like the green ones.
Last time you were here, you got the Crystal Heart to Princess Cadance in time to save this entire empire from destruction!
You are known throughout my empire as "Great and Honorable Spike the Brave and Glorious".
Isn't that awesome? You're a big shot here, Spike! See that? That's you!
[a la Barbra Streisand] Hello, gawgeous!
This is why we all hope you do us the honor of lighting the torch at the opening ceremony. You'd be the very first dragon in the history of the Equestria Games to do so.
Places for the procession, everypony! Two minutes!
Ms. And you're quite certain you also understand exactly what you're supposed to do?
I stand where you tell me until you give me the signal, and then I walk over and light the torch.
Ms. Mm. Couldn't be simpler.
Ms. Mr. the Dragon, are you coming? [to herself] Honestly. [out loud] Would somepony help him walk?
Now, please welcome the delegation from Ponyville!
Ponyville forever! Yay!
Awesome!
Yay.
Yeah!
Ms. [stomps hoof] This is the signal! [stomps hoof] I'm giving you the signal now! Mr. the Dragon!
[inhales] [coughing] Come on, Spike! Calm yourself! Count to ten. One... two... three... thousand... fourteen thousand... Twenty thousand...! Thirty thousand...!
What's wrong?
[inhales] [weak breath] Tell me this isn't happening...
Equestria, we have a problem.
Ms. Mr. the Dragon! Would you light the torch already?!
I don't know what it is, but I just don't have the stuff today! Did you bring a match?
Ms. You're a fire-breathing dragon.
[coughs] [raspy] Then some cough drops, maybe?
Somepony go down and help him!
Phew!
Ms. Oh! How did you do that?
I'm... not sure.
Ms. Oh, well. Better late than never.
Let the games begin!
Oh! There are our little superstars! You were fabulous!
Made me sit up proud like a cornstalk in August!
Ya done good, squirt!
You three really were wonderful. But does anypony know what was going on with Spike?
He sure seemed to be having a tough time of it out there.
He put things right in time, though.
Actually, it was me. I didn't want him to be embarrassed, so I cast a secret spell to light it for him.
Oh, dear. Have you told him?
No, but he might have figured it out on his own.
You gotta tell him, just in case.
I know. I'm just afraid of how he'll take it. I know what pride he takes in a job well done.
Psst, here he comes now! Act casual! [to Spike] 'Sup?
Spike! Is everything okay?
I guess. I don't know. The weirdest thing happened down there.
Yeah, about that. I–
I mean, there I was, trying to light the torch, with all of Equestria watching, and feeling like the hugest failure ever, and then the thing just lit! It was amazing!
Oh, phew! I was afraid you'd be upset.
Upset? Are you kidding? Why would I be upset to discover I can light fire... with my mind?
Applejack, Rainbow Dash, What?!
Look, look, it's the Great and Honorable Spike the Brave and Glorious!
Can we get your autograph?
Sure!
How you saved our Empire last time you were here was really amazing!
[whispering] Spike, may I have a word with you a moment?
Hey, you'd better be careful with that! It might burst into flames later! Delayed reaction. Hey, Twi, what is it? Hold on, hold on, give me a second... If I can set fire to stuff with my mind, mind-reading must be just around the corner! And I predict that you are about to ask me... to set fire to something with my mind!
No, because you can't!
Oh, really? So how do you explain what happened down there in front of thousands and thousands of–
I did it, Spike. I cast a spell to do it for you.
In front of... thousands and... thousands...?
I'm sorry, Spike. I just couldn't stand to see you stuck like that! You understand, don't you?
I... I... I need to be alone right now.
Spike?
"Neighls Bohr": O Great and Honorable Spike the Brave and Glorious, can I get your autograph?
Sorry. You should probably ask somebody special instead.
Our next event... [amplified, some distance away] ...the aerial relay!
That's Dash and Fluttershy!
Oh, no! We can't be late for that!
Miss? Step right over here. Unicorns will no longer be admitted without a disabling spell, to prevent cheating. And make sure you don't even try casting a spell, or we'll know it.
Hmph!
[chewing] [swallows] If Ponyville medals here, we'll have eight medals so far, putting us tied for the lead with Cloudsdale! Unless Cloudsdale medals here too...!
Ms. Harshwhinny? I know you're really busy, but...
Ms. What is it?
Maybe there's something else I can do for the Games. Y'know, something really worthy of the Crystal Empire's admiration?
Ms. What are you talking about? You lit the torch for the whole thing!
Uh, well, actually, that wasn't really–
Ms. That wasn't worthy enough for you? Ugh, for pony's sake! Next thing you know, you'll be asking to put on a rock concert. [snorts] [to herself] Celebrities...
Wait, that's it!
We got silver!
Congratulations to all our medalists. And now, the anthem of–
And I shall do the honor of singing!
[to Spike, hushed] Spike, what are you doing?!
You know how they always just play the music? [amplified] Well, I know all the words to our anthem, and will sing them for you now, loud and proud, to the enjoyment of all!
And now... um... the Cloudsdale anthem, as sung by... Spike!
Wait! The Cloudsdale anthem?
[hushed] They only play the anthem for the winner, Spike! The Wonderbolts are from Cloudsdale!
But... But I don't know the words to the Cloudsdale anthem! I've never even heard it!
Sing for us, O Great and Honorable Spike the Brave and Glorious!
[clears throat] [singing out of time and rhythm] Oh, we're the Wonderbolts and we're super fast And we're from Cloudsdale which-is-a-part-of-Equestria  [laughs nervously] That we like best and we're proud and we're fast and we like it because it really has nice trees Yeah, we love the town because it's so cool and, and we like to fly really fast and everything like that [sighs] I kinda wish this was over 'cause it is... n't... yet... over... now.
Oh, we're the Wonderbolts and we're super fast and we're cloud– from Cloudsdale We like it there 'cause it's really nice and the trees are cool and I hope it is over now And... it keeps going on, la la la And we really love the town So I wish that this... song... was over now. Over... now. Over... now.
Nailed it!
Spike, you comin'?
Nah, I got this stuff to pack up.
But you've been moping in here for almost the entire Games.
And tonight's the closing ceremony!
Which means we leave tomorrow. Ergo, the packing.
And so the Games conclude as they always do, with the ice archery finals! Ice archers, take your places!
Too bad Ponyville doesn't have any ice archers competin'. We don't have anyone to root for.
That's okay. Ponyville has thirty seven medals, and Cloudsdale thirty six, so looks like we'll be medal champs of the Games anyway! Woo-hoo!
But Cloudsdale has two ice archery finalists down there now! If they both place, Cloudsale wins the medal count!
So you're saying that it all comes down to this one event?!
Pretty much.
Omigoshomigoshomigoshomigosh! Twilight! Come take this extra seat next to me and freak out over the medal count! I'll show you how: Omigoshomigoshomigoshomigosh!
Actually, I was looking for Spike. Have you seen him?
He wouldn't come.
We tried to talk him into it...
...but he wouldn't listen!
You can have his extra seat, though. Uh... Twi?
Spike?
You here?
[chokes] Uh, yeah! I'm super-busy! Look at all this packing left to do, heh. Crazy, right?
No more hiding out. You're coming with me. Now.
Okay, fine. I'll come. Can I at least wear these?
Those aren't your average arrows. They freeze whatever part of the target they hit. Whoever encases their entire target in ice first wins. Keep your eye on number seven from Cloudsdale – he's the favorite.
Honestly, Spike, I don't see why you're being so hard on yourself.
I let everypony down. Twice. You never let anypony down, so you don't have any idea what that's like.
Are you kidding? I've totally let ponies down. That's not the point. The torch got lit, the aerial relay teams got their medals -- no harm, no foul.
Can we at least watch from inside there? I'm not sure I'm ready to face crowds in the stands just yet.
No!
Steer it towards the field, away from the crowds!
Somepony cut the disabling spell!
There isn't time!
Dash, Fluttershy! Move!
That was awesome!
I just wanted to thank you personally for saving those ponies and the Games, O Great and Honorable Spike the Brave and Glorious. You must be very proud.
I guess.
You guess?!
I just saw what needed to be done and reacted. Just so happens I can breathe fire and... if any of you could do that, you'd have done the same.
Forgive me for bein' blunt, Spike, but you're not makin' a lick of sense.
Well, it's just how I feel.
Wait a second. I think I get it. You keep saying you let everypony down, but we all keep saying you didn't. You know who's disappointed in you, Spike? You. And only you can make it right with you again. What would that take, Spike?
Meh, I don't know. Can you turn back time? 'Cause I'd sure like a do-over on that opening ceremony.
We can't turn back time, but, would you do me the great honor of lighting fireworks in my place at the closing ceremonies tonight?
Come on, Spike. You saved the Crystal Empire twice! I think you can light some fireworks.
Mm, I guess I have to at least give it a shot.
We did it! Ponyville won the medal count, and only by one medal!
Hmm, wonder which medal that was? Bam!
How does it feel to have opened the best Equestria Games in Ponyville history, squirt?
Probably as good as it feels to close them!
Ms. Okay, it's time!
You know, it's kinda weird. No matter how many times others tell you you're great, all the praise in the world means nothing if you don't feel it inside. [inhales] [breathes fire] Sometimes to feel good about yourself, you gotta let go of the past. That way, when the time comes to let your greatness fly, you'll be able to light up the whole sky.
Seems like only yesterday I was saving this place from being totally destroyed. Hey, you guys remember that?
You only mentioned it about fifteen times on the train here.
[sarcastically, to Rainbow Dash] Yes, and we never hear a peep out of you about your exploits.
Heh, point taken.
I'm glad you all wanted to come, but I don't think it's gonna be that exciting. I pretty much just have to smile and wave as the dignitaries arrive.
Yes, but you get to smile and wave like a princess.
How exactly is that different than smilin' and wavin' like not a princess?
It isn't.
What's wrong, Twilight?
Why the looooooooong face?
I've just been feeling a little unsure about things lately. It doesn't seem that my new role as a princess equates to all that much.
That's just silly. You've got a real important role in Equestria.
Princess Celestia wouldn't have asked you to come today if she didn't think so.
I guess you're right.
Of course we are. Now hurry along! You don't want to risk having that important role diminished because you were tardy for your regal meet-and-greet.
The Duke and Duchess of Maretonia!
Your highness. Thank you for understanding our desire to keep the number of those privy to these confidential discussions to a minimum.
Of course.
Is there anything else I can do to assist with their visit?
I'm sorry, Twilight, but their visit is already over.
Oh.
Something wrong?
I guess I just don't really understand why I'm here. Couldn't one of the royal guard have unfurled the banner?
Having all four of us in the Empire to greet them lets the dignitaries know that their visit is considered an important one.
Plus, it gives me an opportunity to see my favorite sister-in-law.
And I'm happy to see you. All of you.
But...?
But I... well, it's just that Princess Luna raises the moon, Princess Celestia raises the sun, you protect the Crystal Empire, and all I seem to do is... smile and wave.
nan
It isn't that I'm ungrateful For all the things that I've earned, For all the journeys I have taken, All the lessons that I have learned
But I wonder where I'm going now, What my role is meant to be I don't know how to travel To a future that I can't see
I have my wings, I wear this crown I'm a princess, this is true But it's still unclear to me Just what I am meant to do
I wanna have a purpose Wanna do all that I can I wanna make a contribution I want to be a part of the plan
Your destiny's uncertain And that's sometimes hard to take But it will become much clearer With every new choice you make
Patience is never easy I understand wanting more I know how hard it is to wait To spread out your wings and soar
But you stand here for a reason You're gifted and you are strong That crown is upon your head because You belong
[Princesses Celestia, Luna, and Cadance] Know that your time is coming soon As the sun rises, so does the moon As love finds a place in every heart You are a princess; you'll play your part
We understand you wanting more A chance to shine, a chance to soar
Soon will come the day it turns around
[Princesses Celestia, Luna, and Cadance] Know that your time is coming soon As the sun rises, so does the moon As love finds a place in every heart You are a princess; you'll play your part
You are a princess; you'll play your part
Your time will come.
Very sorry. [chuckles] You came out of nowhere.
Sister, are you alright?!
I've just had the most terrible dream.
Why do you think I'm here? You know as well as I that this was not a dream, but a vision.
Then we haven't much time. The stronger he becomes, the more we are all in danger.
[narrating] Tirek and his brother Scorpan came here from a distant land, intent on stealing Equestrian magic. But Scorpan soon came to appreciate the ways of Equestria, even befriending a young unicorn wizard.
[narrating] Scorpan urged his brother to abandon their plans. When Tirek refused, Scorpan alerted us to Tirek's intentions.
[narrating] Scorpan returned to his own land, and Tirek was sent to Tartarus for his crimes. But it appears he has found a way to escape.
We believe it happened when Cerberus left his post at the gates.
But that was a long time ago. Why is he just now starting to steal magic?
His time in Tartarus left him very weak. He has just now gained enough strength to use his dark powers.
But with each passing moment, he grows stronger still.
And I know just the princess who can stop him.
Yes. I'll find him and–
No, Twilight. I'm afraid I must call in another to stop Tirek. Discord.
...As in Discord Discord?
Yes!
I don't think it's that big of a surprise. He can be very helpful.
He can sense when there's a magical imbalance. The next time Tirek steals magic, Discord will be able to track him down!
So what are you supposed to do in the meantime?
[sighs] Nothing. Unless of course one of you needs me to smile and wave.
Where are you going?
To the Castle of the Two Sisters. I'm not really needed anywhere else. Might as well catch up on some of my reading.
You want some company?
 It has been a while since we visited the castle. Might be fun!
Maybe I could use a little company right now.
[sighs] I still can't believe we had to give back the Elements.
It had to be done or the Tree of Harmony wouldn't have survived.
But Twilight was right. Even without the Elements, our friendship is as strong as ever.
I just hope another 'friend' of ours never makes us sorry we had to give them up.
[laughs] Oh, you're talking about me, I presume?
How'd you guess?
My ears were burning.
What are you even doing here, Discord?
Oh, just a bit of light reading before I head off on my extremely important mission. I suppose you all know that I've been tasked to capture a certain escapee.
Big deal.
You're right, Spike. It is a big deal. Seems I possess a magic that gives me quite an important role in Equestria. Maybe they should make me an Alicorn princess.
Mmwah! Mmwah!
In your dreams!
Oh, I never dream of such things. Ask Princess Luna.
Don't you have a creepy magic-stealin' villain to track down?
Yes, yes, yes, of course. It's just that I couldn't help but notice that Twilight hasn't yet opened this little chest of hers. I-I-It got me thinking, what if what's locked inside is something that could help her prove her royal worth? I only bring it up because she said that she's been feeling like her role as a princess doesn't equate to much.
Wait a minute! How do you know how she was feeling?!
[mock sadness] Oh, my. Is eavesdropping not the way you're supposed to find out what your best pals are up to? Woe is me. Will I ever learn the intricate nuances of being a good friend?
[clears throat] Well in any case, I suppose now is as good a time as any for me to make my exit.
And good riddance!
Oopsie-doopsie, I almost left with the little journal you've all been keeping. What a fascinating read. Haven't you girls just learned so much? I've bookmarked a few of the more interesting passages. You really should take a look! [to Fluttershy, hushed] We're still on for tea later, aren't we, Fluttershy?
I wouldn't miss it.
[singsong] Well, I'll bring the cucumber sandwiches...!
Sometimes I think the 'reformed' Discord is more obnoxious than the 'before-he-was-reformed' Discord.
Indeed.
But he could be right, couldn't he? What if there is something important in that chest?
There's only one way to find out.
Anything?
There must be something in this library that can help me figure out how to open it. The answer's in one of these books. I just know it.
Tirek, I presume?
Discord. You're free?
As a bird.
I commend you on your escape.
Oh, I should have known you would want to have Equestria all to yourself.
Fluttershy? You're not saying you're friends with ponies?
Surprise!
I am surprised that someone with your intellect does not see this 'friendship' is but a new form of imprisonment. Clearly you've had to abandon your true nature to stay in their good graces.
I have done nothing of the sort!
Oh, please, I've seen this before. But he was always weak minded. You are Discord, you are legend, you cannot fall into the same trap that claimed my brother! Help me to grow strong, and be rewarded with something far greater than friendship. Freedom. Once I've stripped these ponies of their magic, nothing would give me greater pleasure than to see their world turned upside down. Who better to do so than the master of chaos himself? Join me, Discord, and reclaim your greatness. Unless, of course, 'pony errand boy' is the role you've always wanted to play in this world.
I think I found something! I've been reading our journal, and there's something interesting about the sections that Discord bookmarked. Applejack, do you remember when you had to tell everypony that the tonic Granny bought from the Flim Flam brothers didn't really work?
How could I forget? It was one of the hardest things I ever had to do.
[flashback] I hate to disappoint everypony, but there's no way Granny could have made that dive, because this tonic is a fake!
[present] And in that moment, I knew I had to be honest. I just knew it. But what's that got to do with openin' the chest?
I've found that each of you has had to face a situation where living up to the Element of Harmony you represent wasn't easy. Fluttershy, it was when you realized that the way to show kindness to the Breezies was by forcing them to leave your home.
Oh, the looks on their poor little faces! But I knew that, as difficult as it was, pushing them away was the kindest thing I could do.
Rarity, even after Suri took advantage of your generosity at Fashion Week in Manehattan, you didn't let it cause you to abandon your generous spirit.
I simply couldn't have lived with myself if I didn't do something special for the friends who have always been so generous to me!
Rainbow Dash, you had the chance to fly with the Wonderbolts at the Equestria Games, but instead you chose to compete with your friends.
Sure! But being loyal to my friends was way–
Ooh, my turn, my turn!
Pinkie Pie, you realized that seeing your friend laugh was more important than proving you were a better party planner than Cheese Sandwich.
Best party I've ever had.
It's clear we've all had our moments to shine, Twilight, but I'm with Applejack. What does any of this have to do with the opening of the chest?
All of you had tough choices to make. But when you made the right one and embraced your element, it helped somepony else make the right choice too. Each of you received something from the pony whose life you helped change. I know it sounds crazy, but maybe there's something special about those objects that could lead us to the location of the keys. The chest is connected to the Tree of Harmony, the Tree is connected to the Elements, and the Elements are connected to all of us. There must be a connection! I hate to admit it, but maybe Discord was trying to be a good friend after all.
I don't see anything on them that would give us a clue as to where the keys might be. They're just... ordinary, everyday objects.
Come on, Boneless! Give us that key!
I don't think that's going to work.
There's still one key missing. The key that represents the element of magic. My element.
Oh, but I'm sure that if we've gotten our keys, you have too, Twilight.
Think, Twilight. When have you completed a difficult magical task, and in doing so encouraged another pony to do the same?
I haven't. If I had, I would have written about it in the journal.
What's it say?
That I'm needed in Canterlot at once!
I came as quickly as I could! Is something wrong? Is it Tirek?
I'm afraid I put too much trust in Discord and the effect that friendship would have upon him.
Discord has betrayed the ponies of Equestria and joined forces with Tirek.
How could he do this?! I thought our friendship meant something to him! I thought he had changed.
Tirek has stolen enough magic that he now has the strength to steal flight as well. Without Pegasi to control the weather, there will be no rain in Equestria. There is word he has gone after Earth ponies as well. Without their strength, they will not be able to tend the land.
Ponies will no longer be in control of their world. That power will belong solely to Tirek.
There is no doubt that Tirek is after Alicorn magic. With Discord by his side, we will not be able to stop him from taking it.
Once it is in his possession, his power will know no bounds, and all hope will be lost.
But there is one solution. It is only by making this sacrifice that Equestria and the lands beyond it might be saved. We must rid ourselves of our magic before Tirek has the chance to steal it from us.
What's wrong, Twilight?
It doesn't seem that my new role as a princess equates to all that much.
I am Lord Tirek, and I will take what should have been mine long ago.
With each passing moment, he grows stronger still.
And I know just the princess who can stop him.
I'm afraid I must call in another to stop Tirek.
[laughs] Oh, you're talking about me, I presume?
Haven't you girls just learned so much?
And there's something interesting about the sections that Discord bookmarked.
Each of you received something from the pony whose life you helped change.
There's still one key missing. My element.
Join me, Discord, and reclaim your greatness.
Discord has betrayed the ponies of Equestria and joined forces with Tirek.
There is no doubt that Tirek is after Alicorn magic.
We must rid ourselves of our magic before Tirek has the chance to steal it from us.
Tirek is set on possessing Alicorn magic. When he comes for us, we cannot have what he is looking for.
I'm more than willing to do my part and give up my magic.
You misunderstand. Our magic cannot just disappear into thin air. Somepony must keep it safe.
That somepony is you, Twilight.
Why me?
We do not believe that Tirek is aware that a fourth Alicorn princess exists in Equestria. If we transfer our magic to you, Tirek will not know where it has gone.
Do you understand what we're asking of you?
Yes. It's just... I'm only now learning how to control my own Alicorn magic. To take on even more–
Twilight, you represent the element of magic. If there is anypony who can do this, it's you.
Taking on this task will be one of the most difficult things I'll ever do, but with the help of my friends–
I'm sorry, Princess Twilight, but you must keep your new abilities a secret. I fear that your friends being aware of your new power could put them at great risk. Do you still think you can take on this responsibility?
This is the role I am meant to play as a princess of Equestria! I will not fail to do my duty!
Then we must begin at once.
[shivers] That can't be right.
What can't be right?
Nothing. Carry on.
[out of breath] It is done.
[snoring] You weren't gone very long. Does that mean everything's okay?
In that case, I'm going back to bed. Sun's not up... and neither am I.
[hushed] That's strange. The sun should be up by now... [gasps] The sun should be up by now! [inhales, exhales] You can do this.
Shining Armor, why, whatever are you doing here?
Back off, traitor.
The only one Discord betrayed was himself. Abandoning his true nature to make friends with weak-minded equines who offer him nothing!
[weakly] How... could you... do this...?
Why don't you go and have a little fun? I won't stand in your way.
[inhales] What have you done?! [inhales] Where is your magic?!
I have to gain better control. I sure can't practice here.
Uh, Twilight, [pants] where are we goin'?
Oh, uh, hi, Spike. Uh, gotta go... somewhere... else.
Waaaaah! Whoa!
Whoa! Twilight?
Yiiiipe!
Ooh!
Oh, my goodness, are you all right?
Jumpin' junebugs, Twilight! When did you learn to fly that fast?
I must have caught a particularly strong breeze... or something.
Must have been "or something", because there wasn't any breeze up there.
I don't know what happened, but I don't really have time to figure it out right now.
Another visit to the Castle of the Two Sisters, I presume? We'd be more than happy to accompany you!
Not today!
Tirek may still be a threat. I need you all to stay here and encourage everypony to remain inside.
Getting rid of your magic so that I cannot take it from you? That was your plan? How does it feel, knowing that soon, every Pegasus, unicorn and Earth pony will bow to my will, and that there is nothing you can do to stop it?
You will not prevail, Tirek.
Give my regards to Cerberus.
You meant our will, didn't you?
Of course. Here, I want you to have something. This was given to me by someone very close to me. I give it to you as a sign of my gratitude and loyalty.
Oh, my! I do love a good accessory. I suppose that's Rarity's influence.
[laughs] Amusing. But we have no time for such things. With the princesses out of the way, we can now– is this meant to be humorous?!
Oh, no, I haven't touched that one yet.
There's a fourth? And you did not tell me this?!
I just needed some assurance that you truly considered this a team effort. And now I have it.
Then where can we find this fourth princess? Where is her castle?
Not for much longer.
Alright, y'all. I think we've warned everypony to stay inside.
I'm sure Discord will catch Tirek and this will all be over soon.
I'll bet he takes his sweet time.
Or perhaps these things just take time.
[gasps] You're back! Did you bring the cucumber sandwiches?
I did. I imagine they'll be your last decent meal for quite some time.
Ta-da!
You've gathered up all of them?
And her little dragon, too.
[crying] Why are you doing this? I thought we were friends!
Oh, we were. But Tirek offered me so much more than just tea parties. Surely you saw this coming.
[crying] I didn't. I really didn't.
You really think she'd do anything for them?
If Twilight has magic to give, it will be yours. Soon there won't be a Pegasus, Earth pony or unicorn who will be able to stand up against us.
Us? Who said anything about us?
You did.
You've helped me grow strong, you've provided the means by which I can obtain Princess Twilight's magic, and now you are no longer of any use to me.
[weakly] But you said this was a sign of your gratitude and loyalty. A gift from someone close to you.
My brother who betrayed me. It is as worthless as he is.
Surely you saw this comin'.
[weakly] I didn't. I truly didn't.
I can do this.
See! Ha! Perfectly controlled teleportation–
Princess Twilight!
[gasps] Tirek!
You have something that belongs to me!
Now I understand what your fellow princesses have done!
It appears we are at an impasse. How about a trade, Princess Twilight? Their release for all the Alicorn magic in Equestria.
What's it going to be, Princess?
[muffled] Don't do it, Twilight!
[muffled] We aren't worth it!
[muffled] Oh, but you are, Fluttershy. You're the pony that taught me that friendship is magic. I had magic and friendship, and now I don't have either.
Enough! I want an answer, and I want it now!
I will give you my magic, in exchange for my friends.
As you wish.
All of my friends.
After the way he has betrayed you, you still call him a 'friend'?
Release him!
If that's what you want.
Thank you, Twilight. [to Fluttershy, hushed] I'm sorry.
I know.
Your turn.
[roars] Yes!
Twilight, what were you thinking?!
Tirek tricked me into believing that he could offer me something more valuable than friendship. But there is nothing worth more. I see that now. He lied when he said that this medallion was given as a sign of gratitude and loyalty. But when I say that it is a sign of our true friendship, I am telling the truth.
You think that might be the last one we need?
We have to get to the chest.
Together! I think we have to do this together!
How is this possible?! You have no magic!
You're wrong, Tirek! I may have given you my Alicorn magic, but I carry within me the most powerful magic of all!
Sweet Celestia! Are you all seeing what I'm seeing?
But... whose is it?
I believe it is yours, Princess Twilight.
You've been wondering what you are meant to do as a princess. Do you know now?
As princess, I believe I have the power to spread the magic of friendship across Equestria. That is the role I am meant to have in our world! The role I choose to have! But I didn't defeat Tirek on my own – it took all of us to unlock the chest!
Then it is unlikely you are meant to take on this task alone.
Wowee!
You are now Twilight Sparkle, the princess of friendship. But what is the princess of friendship without her friends?
Wait a minute, where's my throne?!
I don't think you're quite there yet.
[chuckles] Yes, well, I suppose not.
nan
Each one of us has something special That makes us different, that makes us rare
We have a light that shines within us That we were always meant to share
And when we come together Combine the light that shines within There is nothing we can't do There is no battle we can't win
When we come together There'll be a star to guide the way It's inside us every day
See it now! See it now!
Let the rainbow remind you That together we will always shine Let the rainbow remind you That forever this will be our time
Let the rainbow remind you That together we will always shine
Let's go through this one more time.
[sighs] We've been over it like a million times, Twilight! We found all six keys, defeated Tirek, and got this sweet castle! End of story!
Yes, but why?
I dunno, sugarcube. Maybe it's just your new house and there ain't nothin' more to it than that.
I must say, speaking strictly on aesthetics, there really doesn't need to be more to it. It's all simply divine!
I agree with Twilight. And Rarity. And Applejack. And Rainbow Dash. And Pinkie Pie. Oh, and probably Spike.
As princess, I've been chosen to spread the magic of friendship across Equestria. So why would the Tree of Harmony want us to sit in a castle in Ponyville? It doesn't make any sense.
[groans] Is that new? I like it.
This is incredible! It's got all of Equestria!
Hi, Mom and Dad!
But if this is Ponyville, why are our cutie marks over there?
I don't know. But it seems like the map wants us to find out. The Tree, the chest, this castle, and now the map. How can we not follow it?
Y'know what? There's a ton of room for dangerous adventure along that route. Count me in!
Aw, shoot, I reckon you're right.
Well, I was planning on organizing my baking sheets, but okay!
[sighs] Very well.
Um, maybe I'll just stay here with Spike.
Awesome! Me and Big Mac have a huge weekend ahead of us talkin' hoofball, and... and trading hoofball cards, and arguing about hoofball stats...
O-o-on second thought, m-m-maybe I'd better go with them. In case they need me.
Looks like it's time for a road trip.
Well, suit yourself. But he's got a Hock Fetlock rookie card I plan to sweet-talk right into these hot little claws.
That's it! That's the place on the map!
Right. Let's get down there and find the spa.
Wait. We don't know why the map sent us here. We shouldn't just walk right in. It could be dangerous.
Yes!
Stay behind me, everypony! I'm on it!
Careful, Pinkie!
This is where the map sent us? It looks like the most boring place in Equestria.
It's just an ordinary village full of ordinary pony folk.
It could certainly use a few more architectural flourishes. Or any architectural flourishes.
I think it's lovely.
I don't like it. I don't like it one bit. I know smiles. And those smiles? They're just not right.
Forget the smiles. Look at the cutie marks.
Okay, that's weird.
An entire village with the same cutie mark? How can that be?
I bet there's some sort of horrific monster behind it.
What makes you say that?
'Cause fighting a horrific monster would be super-awesome!
I reckon we just ought to head into town and talk to some locals, find out what's goin' on.
Great idea, AJ. Let's go!
Those smiles are bad news.
"Sunny Song": Welcome!
S05E01 Unnamed Pegasus Mare # Welcome!
S05E01 Unnamed Unicorn Stallion # Welcome!
"Bacon Braids": Welcome!
S05E01 Unnamed Unicorn Stallion # Welcome!
"Offbeat": Welcome!
S05E01 Unnamed Unicorn Filly #1, Cotton Cloudy, "Princess Erroria", and "Ruby Pinch": Welcome!
This must be the most pleasant place in Equestria!
Welcome!
Ugh. Thanks a lot, map.
Welcome! Pardon my forwardness, but are you an Alicorn?
That there's the Princess of Friendship!
Well, you've certainly come to the right place for friendship.
What brings you to town?
We're not entirely sure.
I see. Well, all are welcome here in our little village. My name is Double Diamond, and this is Party Favor.
Howdy, Double Diamond. I'm Applejack, and this here's Pinkie Pie, Fluttershy, Rarity, Rainbow Dash, and Twilight Sparkle.
And you all have your own unique cutie marks.
If you don't mind, has there been any sort of... trouble here, lately?
Trouble? Why, I don't think we've ever had trouble in our little village.
It's true. You'll see. Hm.
Perhaps you'd care to speak to our founder Starlight Glimmer.
I wish everypony in Equestria was as friendly as these ponies are.
I've got my eye on them. Something's rotten in... whatever the name of this village is that we're in right now!
Starlight, we have some new visitors.
[to Applejack] Be ready to fight. We don't know what's gonna come through that door.
Welcome! I'm so pleased to have you here.
This is Applejack, Fluttershy, Pinkie Pie, Rarity, Rainbow Dash, and Twilight Sparkle.
Forgive my bluntness, but I'm assuming it's Princess Twilight Sparkle? We don't get many Alicorns around here.
Yes, but "Twilight" is fine.
So! How did you hear of our little village?
It's kind of a long story. Let's just say we found it on a map.
Technically, it's a Tree-chest-castle-map!
Well, however you found us, we're happy to have you! We're happy to have anypony who wants to experience true friendship for the first time.
Say what?
Oh, indeed. That's what's so unique about our village, you see. Around here, we don't flaunt our special talents because we don't have any special talents to flaunt.
Is that why you all have those cutie marks?
Perhaps it would be easier to understand if I gave you a tour of the village!
nan
Heads high, ponies! Marching proud! [whistle blows] All together now! Every one of you! No pony left behind!
Life is so grand in Our Town We're always filled with cheer We never have to look around To know that we're all here
In Our Town, in Our Town We don't have to wait To find out that our destiny Is just to emulate
Let's see those big, happy smiles!
Life is a smile in Our Town Our cutie mark's the same Because we do not separate Ourselves by more than name
In Our Town, in Our Town We dare not compete Winning only breeds the worst Ego-filled conceit
You see? Now everypony wins!
Life is a joy in Our Town We're all equal here No one is superior And no one shakes in fear
In Our Town, in Our Town We work as a team You can't have a nightmare If you never dream
Other ponies argue Do you ever wonder why? When you think your talent's special You don't see eye-to-eye
There's just too many differences That lead to disarray But when you learn to act as one It's like a holiday
In Our Town, in Our Town We don't complicate When you learn to simplify Life is oh, so great
Join in our utopia Come out of the dark Banded by equality By our cutie mark!
[laughing] You're kidding, right? Give up our cutie marks? No way!
Rainbow Dash, don't be so rude. I don't think we should judge them. They all seem perfectly happy with their choice.
Don't believe their smiles, Fluttershy.
I'm sorry, I guess we're just a little confused by all of this.
We have no judgements here in our village. Each of us was confused once as well, blinded by the false promise of our cutie marks.
Whoa, whoa, whoa. Is she for real?
When we were sent to this village, we assumed it was to help in some way. But, well, it doesn't seem like you need any help.
Have you considered perhaps that you might have been sent here so we could help you? After all, nopony has ever come to our village and wanted to leave. Why should you be any different? But that is entirely your choice. Please enjoy our little corner of Equestria. We're all quite fond of it. No doubt you will be as well. Double Diamond, please help our guests with whatever they might need.
Of course.
Well, this will certainly provide a boost to our little community. When the rest of Equestria sees that a princess gave up her cutie mark to join us, they'll finally understand what we're trying to accomplish.
S05E01 Unnamed Unicorn Stallion # Welcome!
"Ivy Vine": Welcome!
"Sunny Song": Welcome!
A cutie mark is a representation of a pony's unique talents and skills. How is it possible to—
[gasps] What in the name of Equestria is that?!
"Burlap": Welcome! Care to sample some local fashion? We've got cloaks this month!
[gagging] Wha— Ooh, er, perhaps another time, good sir, thank you. [whispering] No wonder nopony's wearing anything!
[hushed] Really, girls! They may do things a bit differently than we're used to, but that's no reason to be rude.
[hushed] No, the reason to be rude is that they all keep staring at us!
Need something?
Uh, no! We're good! [hushed] Fluttershy's right. If we're going to get to the bottom of why the map sent us here, we'll need the help of these ponies.
I think we ran off to the end of Equestria before we even knew what that map was!
If we were at the end of Equestria, we'd be sitting on a big 'A'! [giggles] Get it?
Oh, please, Miss Pie! This is hardly the time for jokes! We've come all this way and for what?
[hushed] Maybe you're right. But we're here now, and it sure feels like something's wrong.
That and two bits'll get you a cup of cider.
Is this a bad time?
We shouldn't be bickering like this in front of our new friends. Really, Applejack, you're almost as bad as Rainbow Dash!
Don't drag me into this!
Is your friendship ending?
Are you crazy?! We'd never let a disagreement get in the way of food!
O-kay, well, my name is Sugar Belle. What can I bring you? We have: muffins...
Then I guess we'll take six muffins!
Make that twelve! What? I'm hungry!
[hushed] Come on, girls. We've got to stick together. It doesn't matter what happened before, we're here now.
I guess you're right. And the sooner we figure out why, the sooner we can go home.
Forgive me for overhearing, but just a moment ago you were disagreeing, and now it sounds like you're... agreeing.
Uh-huh...
Well, you had such differing opinions – and cutie marks.
We have differing opinions all the time, darling.
But you look like you're friends.
We are friends. A simple disagreement wouldn't change that.
I'm sorry, I'm just having a hard time understanding. Different talents lead to different opinions, which lead to bitterness and misery. So... why aren't you bitter and...?
[choking] Blech! Mmmm... good...
It's all right. I know I'm not a very good baker. At least, I know I'm not any better than anypony else in the village. Well, I... hope you enjoy our little village!
[hushed] Come inside before you go! Meet me downstairs!
Okay, that was weird too.
[hushed] Let's all sit here and eat these muffins and act normal. I think we're being watched.
You think?
[hushed] No, not like that! I mean somepony here doesn't want us talking to Sugar Belle.
I got an idea. But you gotta eat all of them muffins, Pinkie.
Me?! Why me?!
[hushed] You got a stronger stomach than any of us, and that filly in there might be our best chance at findin' out what the hay is goin' on round here.
[stilted] I can't believe you ate all our muffins, Pinkie Pie! We'd best go inside and get some more!
Nice work, Pinkie.
I've accidentally eaten cardboard tastier than that...
Hello? Sugar Belle?
Thank you for coming!
Why did you want us to come down here?
So nopony could see what's about to happen.
Are you really the Princess of Friendship?
Do you know Princess Celestia?
I love your cutie mark!
How can you be friends with different cutie marks? Don't you end up hating each other?
Oh, look at this one! This one's great too! I'd love to have my special talent back even just for a day! Make something besides those disgusting muffins...
So what's stopping you? Go get your cutie marks back.
Daydreaming is one thing, but you mean actually having it put back on? That seems extreme.
I'm not sure Starlight would like that. She wants us all to be happy in our sameness.
How do you take somepony's cutie mark anyway?
The cutie unmarking is a beautiful experience! Starlight uses the Staff of Sameness to magically take them away and replace them with these.
But nopony should keep you from your cutie mark. It represents such an essential part of who you are.
Oh, we're not kept from them. They're in the vault up in the caves. We can visit them any time we like to remind us of the heartache of a life with special talents.
Can we visit this cave?
I'm delighted you're interested in our cutie mark vault. We hope someday every pony in Equestria will make a pilgrimage here to our little village to have theirs removed too, and our message of [continues under] perfectly equal friendship can finally spread across the land.
[hushed, over] This must be the reason we're here.
[hushed, over] "Pilgrimaging"?
[hushed] No, helping those ponies get their cutie marks back.
[hushed] Oh, are you sure, Twilight? Maybe they miss them a little, but even they didn't seem all that unhappy.
[hushed] Then why did they want to meet us in secret? And why did they ask us not to tell Starlight who told us about the vault? Something's not right.
Just through here! Behold! Our cutie mark vault!
I've never seen anything like it!
And here is the Staff of Sameness. It was one of the great Mage Meadowbrook's nine enchanted items. We are incredibly fortunate to have it here. This is the tool that allows us to free ourselves from our marks! I'm curious – how did the subject of the vault come up?
Oh, some ponies were telling us how much they missed their cutie marks, and—
Pinkie!
Oops...
[gasps] Were they? Well, it seems you inspire all sorts of free thinking, don't you?
[laughs nervously] Well, w-we certainly didn't intend to cause any disruptions to your charming little—
Good. Let's just make sure of that, shall we?
It's a trap!
Aw. I don't blame you for what you tried to do here today. You've spent your whole lives thinking those marks are a good thing.
Give them back!
Well, now you can spend the rest of your lives here with us! And we'll teach you just how much better life can be without your cutie marks!
As princess, I've been chosen to spread the magic of friendship across Equestria. So why would the Tree of Harmony want us to sit in a castle in Ponyville?
This is incredible! It's got all of Equestria!
Why are our cutie marks over there?
Seems like the map wants us to find out.
An entire village with the same cutie mark?
Welcome!
This must be the most pleasant place in Equestria!
I'm delighted you're interested in our cutie mark vault.
It's a trap!
Now you can spend the rest of your lives here without your cutie marks!
[slightly muffled, over loudspeaker] In sameness, there is peace. Exceptionalism is a lie.
Free yourself from your cutie mark. Choose equality as your special talent.
[voice fades under] Difference is frustration. To excel is to fail.
Hey, this is pretty good!
[under] Be your best by never being your best.
Ugh, we've gotta find a way out of here! I can't take much more of that voice!
There, there, Rarity... It's not so bad...
Yes, it is! Look at those drapes! I have no idea if they're tacky or not!
Well, I think they're nice.
[crying] So do I!
Oh, thank goodness! Can you help us, little birdie?
Go on, now! Fly away and get us help!
Oh, even tweets don't make sense any more!
[grunts] This door's shut tighter than a... summer of...
...uh, piglets in... shoot! I can't even make countryisms no more!
I don't know! Maybe it'll be super fun to be all the same!
Sort of. More pleasant than fun, I guess...
Something odd about that staff. I haven't studied Eastern unicorns as much as I should have, but I'm pretty sure Meadowbrook only had eight magical items, not nine. And I don't remember any of them being a staff.
Well, it looks like you'll have plenty of time to try to think about it.
I've got it!
I know how we can get out!
[sighs] Forget it, Twilight. This door's not opening.
And I'm afraid the windows are much too small for escape.
But there is a third way.
Of course! Eventually the wind and the weather will wear down the walls until they start to crumble! Then all we have to do is wait for a big enough hole to form and we can just walk out! It's the perfect plan!
I guess.
We don't actually have to escape. They'll just let us out when they think we've accepted their philosophy!
But they're never gonna believe we switched over in just one night.
There's one of us they might believe.
Oh! Me?!
You've been saying how great this place is since we got here!
But that's because everypony's so nice and their village is so pretty, and, and... Oh, you're right. They probably would believe me. I hate to lie to them. They've been so welcoming and friendly... aside from locking us in here and trying to brainwash us into abandoning the things that make us special... Okay. I'll do it.
Woo-hoo! I mean, cool.
But what do I do once I'm out?
You've gotta find a way to get our cutie marks back.
[over loudspeaker] Oh, good morning!
I trust you had a pleasant night? This way, please. There are some friends who'd like to see you. Gather round, friends, gather round! We've come to ask if any of you are ready to join us! There are so many friends to be made once you realize you don't need your cutie marks or the talents that come with them.
We have a welcome ceremony for new friends! The whole village joins together to build you your own cottage—
Not interested! You may have them now, but we're going to get our cutie marks back!
Y'all don't understand, do ya? You can't force nopony to be friends! It don't work like that!
"Sunny Song": Please, join us!
"Rosemary": We love new friends!
It's all right, everypony. This is a perfectly normal part of the equalization process for those who haven't... quite seen the light yet. We'll try again tomorrow once you've had a bit more time to consider our philosophy!
I'd like to join!
Fluttershy? How could you?!
If giving up my cutie mark means I get to stay in this lovely village with these lovely ponies, then I'll do it.
We have a new friend, everypony!
Now, there's one more order of business. It seems some in our midst might be... dissatisfied with the village life!
Unfortunately, it's all too true, my friends! [to Fluttershy] Will you kindly tell us the names of those friends who so desperately miss their cutie marks that they would sneak around in the shadows talking to strangers about it? Just so we can be sure your intentions are indeed pure.
Um, I don't know who they were. Um, I'm sorry. I don't know your names and faces yet.
Nonsense! Obviously these ponies must have asked you directly. Kindly point them out!
It was me! It was only me! But I only wanted it back for a little while!
And you're quite certain it was only you?
I just wanted to remember what it was like.
And no thought to the pain you'd cause your friends. Such selfishness.
I'm sorry, everypony! I never wanted to leave the village! I love all of—
What was I thinking?! I can't believe I even considered asking for my cutie mark back.
Don't worry. Fluttershy will have us out of here in no time!
Didn't you see what just happened out there?! Your friend has accepted our way! You will all accept our way! It's only a matter of time!
This guy's a barrel of laughs.
[flatly] Laughs don't come in barrels. They come from inside you as your body's response to delight.
[hushed] So what are we gonna do while Fluttershy's out there lookin' for our [whispering] cutie marks?
We have to stay as positive as we can. If Party Favor sees how much we really do like each other, even though we're all different, maybe we can use him to spread our message to the rest of the village.
Let's hope they don't convert any of us first.
"Rocky Storm": Welcome!
S05E01 Unnamed Pegasus Mare # Welcome!
S05E01 Unnamed Unicorn Stallion # Welcome!
Gosh, you really are the nicest ponies I've ever met.
Come. All new friends stay with me until their cottage is completed. Let's get you settled, and then you can enjoy all that our little village has to offer.
[coughing] Brrrrrr! [sighs] Get the cutie marks back. That's all you've gotta do, Fluttershy. Just sneak through the dark up to that spooky old cave with the scary magical staff and get the cutie marks back.
Okay, you're doing great. The cave's gotta be close now...
Excellent work, Double Diamond.
Of course, but I don't understand why you wanted me to bring them here. Fluttershy is one of us now. Surely she can be trusted.
This one belongs to a princess. It could be very important to our cause.
But if Twilight Sparkle becomes our friend, then why do we care about this old cutie mark?
I just want to keep them close until everything is... settled. You may go, Double Diamond.
Oh, dear. How am I ever going to get the cutie marks back now?
Ow!
Ugh! Starlight, you clumsy foal!
[gasps] Oh, no...
I've got a good feeling about today! So, do any of you have anything you'd like to say? Aw, pity. Well, let's try this again tomorrow, shall we? No new friends today, I'm afraid!
Wait! I'd like to lock them in.
Marvelous, Fluttershy! That's the spirit! Party Favor, will you join us, please?
I'm sorry, Starlight! I'm sorry, everypony! I've seen the error of my ways! I never want to look at my cutie mark again!
It seems there's cause for celebration after all!
They tried to break me! They wouldn't stop talking about how different they are, and that somehow makes their friendship stronger!
Such backwards thinking.
But I didn't listen! I knew what they were up to, and I didn't listen!
Well done, Party Favor! We welcome you back with open hooves!
Um, Starlight? I think we might have one more friend joining us today.
Is this true?
I-I think so. But I just want to be sure. If I agree to leave my cutie mark in the vault, I'll really be happier?
Just look around! Equality has given us more happiness than you've ever known!
And you wouldn't let me just live here in the village with my old cutie mark?
Out of the question. A pony with a different cutie mark in our midst would destroy our entire philosophy. We are all equal here!
Then how do you explain this?!
I knew you couldn't be trusted! No! Get away!
Wha... What are you looking at?! They're the problem, not me!
How could you?
You said cutie marks were evil! You said special talents led to pain and heartache!
They do! Don't you see?! Look at them!
Then why? Why did you take ours and not give up your own?
I... I had to, you fools! How could I collect your cutie marks without my magic?!
But the staff has all the magic we need!
The staff is a piece of wood I found in the desert! It's my magic that makes all this possible! You'd all still be living your miserable lives thinking you're better than everypony else if it weren't for my magical abilities! I brought you friendship! I brought you equality! I created harmony!
You lied to us!
So what? E-Everything else I said is true! The only way to be happy is if we're all equal!
Except for you.
Everypony has unique talents and gifts, and when we share them with each other, that's how rea—
QUIET!
You can't have a cutie mark, Starlight! Either we're all equal, or none of us are!
Come on! Let's get our cutie marks back!
Come on! Let's go get our cutie marks!
Our cutie marks aren't in the vault! They're in there with her!
Stand back, everypony!
Even without my cutie mark, I can tell this is beautiful!
They think they can come to my village and disrupt my life? Let's see how they like spending the rest of their lives without their precious cutie marks!
Stand back, everypony!
They're gone! They were right over there!
Look!
She's headed for the pass! If she makes it into those mountains, we'll never find her!
These are amazing!
There's a whole network of caves up there! Your cutie marks will be gone forever!
Then let's get moving, y'all!
Oh, come on!
Are you all so willing to give up everything because of these strangers?!
We gave up everything for you, because we thought you were our friend!
I can't believe we have to count on these other ponies to save our cutie marks!
If we hadn't come here to help them, they'd still be living under her rules! Now it's their turn to help us!
And I know they can do it!
My newest recipe – snow pie!
She's gonna get away!
Whoa! These are my old skis! This is where I first met Starlight!
Maybe you can reminisce another time! She's almost to the caves!
Feel like an air drop?
Yee-haw! Finally, I can buck like a five-bit snake herder in an Appleloosa ranch house again!
And you got your countryisms back, too!
Wh– I studied that spell for years! How can you—
I studied magic for years too! But what I didn't know then was that studying could only take me so far. Each of my friends has taught me something different about myself! It was their unique gifts and passions and personalities that helped bring out the magic inside of me! I never would have learned that I represent the element of magic without these five! And I certainly wouldn't be here to stop you now!
Spare me your sentimental nonsense! I gave these ponies real friendships they never could've had otherwise!
How do you know that?! You never even gave us a chance!
She's getting away!
We'll never find her in there!
We just have to hope that when she's had a chance to think it over, she realizes that you all have taught her something.
It's you who have taught us something. We all came to this village because we were searching for something missing from our lives. We thought Starlight had given it to us, but now... now it seems it was in front of us all along. It's us!
Does that mean you'll stay in the village?
It's our home. I'm not going anywhere.
This is a chance for all of us to get to know each other again for the very first time!
And I finally have a chance to bake something besides terrible muffins!
Now those are real smiles.
I'll never get used to that.
I think it's divine.
Does that mean that the map is calling us somewhere else?
I have a feeling it means our work here is done.
Looks like you were right, Twilight. The map did have a reason for sendin' us here. We brought real friendship to these here ponies. Guess that's why you're the Princess of Friendship.
But the map didn't send me. It sent us. You're a part of me, all of you. And there's no doubt you're a part of my mission to spread friendship too.
This feels like an ending! It doesn't have to be an ending yet, right? 'Cause that Sugar Belle can bake!
Maybe we can stay a little while longer. Come on!
Phew! Thanks for helping me get them so fresh and clean, Twilight.
No problem, happy to do it!
You probably can't wait to get back to your castle and take your own bath, huh?
Aren't there more animals that need cleaning?
I think you and I are the only ones left, and I can't wait to get the mud out of my mane.
Oh, no! Angel got dirty! I'd better stay longer to help give him a bath too!
Thank you ever so much for staying to give Angel a bath too, but, um... I think he's dry.
Goodness! It's gotten late! You really didn't have to stay all day. Not that we don't appreciate it. Isn't that right?
I for one am exhausted. [yawns] Plus, I really need to rest up for that big pancake breakfast tomorrow. [beat] And I'm sure you have to get the castle ready.
No! The castle's... fine! But maybe I'd better see if Pinkie Pie needs help with the pancakes!
[knocking] Um, Angel?
[gulps] Mm, these are delicious, Pinkie Pie!
[slurps, gulps] Thanks! Twilight spent all night helping me pick the flavor! I kept thinking we'd found the right one, but she insisted I make even more to try. And more. And more and more and more and more! It was like she never wanted to—
Leave?
Exactly! [chomp] Eventually we ran out of time so we just went with every-berry-any-chip-surprise! [to Rarity, hushed] The surprise is I lost a measuring spoon in the batter. Somepony's gonna get a very special pancake!
Up all night, huh? Is that why she's so, uh... out of it?
Um, I don't mean to sound unappreciative, but has anypony else noticed that Twilight has been a little too helpful lately?
Now that you mention it, she was lendin' a hoof at Sweet Apple Acres the other day and stuck around 'til near midnight. Dug up fifty tree-plantin' holes when all I needed was ten.
She spent an entire afternoon rearranging a single gem drawer at the boutique. An entire afternoon!
You think that's weird? She raced me, like, a hundred times the other day. And lost every time! She just kept goin'! Best out of ten, best out of twenty, best out of a hundred! I mean, I know hanging out with me is awesome, but it was like she'd rather keep losing than—
Leave?
Yeah. Who does that?
Somepony who's avoidin' somethin', that's who. Soon as she wakes up, we're gonna find out what.
[coughs] I win!
Huh?! I'm pancake! I mean, awake...
Uh, Twilight? Is there somethin' you wanna tell us?
You know how much we appreciate all you do for us, and we simply adore having you around... but... we worry you might be... ahem... avoiding something else?
Oh, has it been that obvious? I've been... the thing is... I know it's silly, but I... I've been avoiding... this place.
[gasps] Why in Equestria would you want to avoid such a gorgeous castle?
Yeah, this place has everything! Big tall ceilings that make you feel tiny! Shiny new floors that are cold to the touch! Brrr! And it even has loooong empty hallways!
Okay, I get it.
The castle is amazing. But it just... [sighs] It doesn't feel like home.
[chuckling] Oh, is that all? Why, you simply need to decorate, darling. Make this space your own!
It's just so daunting! Look how big it is! I-I don't even know where to start!
You can start by letting us do it for you. We will make this the castle of your dreams while you go to the Ponyville spa for some much needed rest and relaxation. I'm saying this with love, but... have you looked in a mirror lately? I've never seen you look this... mmmm...
Frazzled?
Yes! That is absolutely the word I was going to use.
Ooh, I guess I do need a little help. And so does my castle. And I just know you'll do a great job, because nopony knows me better than you.
We'll make this place feel cozier than hot cider on a rainy day.
[gasps] There's gonna be cider?! [beat] Uh, I mean, let's decorate!
Oh, no! Did I miss the pancakes?!
I sleep like a baby under that cold, cavernous ceiling.
Spike, I'm so glad you're here!
Really?
Yes! You're taking Twilight to the spa!
Come on, y'all! We've got work to do!
nan
Let's all work together To make this castle shi-i-ine
Once we add some sparkle It'll feel, it'll feel, it'll feel...
It'll feel divine
Crates of apples an' bales o' hay Just makes ya feel at home
Furry friends and some popinjays So she won't be alone
And we'll make, and we'll make, and we'll make This castle a home
There's nothing like balloons and confetti To greet you every time you walk through the door
She'll need this and those Posters of all my heroes How could anypony awesome ever ask for more?
And we'll make, and we'll make, and we'll make A home she'll adore
Bright curtains of flowing silk and lace
This picture of me winning a race
Party cannons to give her a surprise
Hoes and rakes and some more garden supplies
Getting hugs from this nice, big, friendly bear
Decorate with some gemstones bright and rare
More of this and that
Don't forget the party hats
How could anypony awesome ask for more than that?
Let's all work together
To show that we have shown
Princess Twilight Sparkle
How we make, how we make, how we make This castle a home How we make, how we make This castle a home How we make, how we make This castle a home!
We sure did... something.
[simultaneously] Together.
[simultaneously] All together.
[unconvincingly] Fluttershy, I love that you brought so many animals.
Are these your trophies?
I prefer to think of them as everypony's trophies but with my name permanently etched onto them.
[unconvincingly] [laughs] My my, Applejack, bringing the outdoors inside, it's... earthy... What a lovely touch! [sniffs, heaves] Are these quilts vintage?
Hey guys, how do my claws look—Sweet Celestia!
Oh, Spike! Are you and Twilight done already?
Don't worry, I ordered her the super-deluxe mane blow-out! She'll be a while. Man, this place looks terrible!
Phew!
Thank goodness somepony said something!
It's pretty bad, right?
This place looks like a mishmash of knickknacks.
Hmm, I suppose it is a little cluttered.
What are you guys talking about? I think it looks super fun!
Whee!
Oh! Oh, no! Please don't do that! If you all just take a deep breath and calm down—
No! That bunting is embroidered by hoof! Don't you move one more paw!
Everypony, stop!
Okay, now it's a mess.
What're we gonna do?!
I dunno. But Twilight's blow-out won't take that long. If she was avoiding the castle before, she'll never set hoof in here now!
Come on, guys, we've gotta do something! Twilight's counting on us!
Spike, you've got to get back to that spa and stall her! Whatever you do, don't let her come home!
Like, forever? But we live here.
Anything for you, Rarity...
Okay, we all agree the castle is too cluttered, right? So why doesn't everypony take one of their own decorations out and we'll see how it looks?
Spike, you're back! How do I look?
Great!
And more importantly, how does the castle look?
Great?
I can't wait to go home and see it!
Great! I mean, no! I mean, uh, I'm not... quite ready to go yet. Uh, why don't we have a massage? I was really hoping to get, uh... this thingy!
[reading] The 'Extra-strength-hot-stone-deep-tissue massage'?
[gulps] Yep!
I think I'll just have a traditional massage, but you go for it.
Did somepony order massages?
Yeah! Let's do this, little dragon!
Oh, I hate it when he does that. Come with me, princess.
Come on, Rarity. Everypony has taken somethin' out except you.
Ooh, I know! I simply can't decide.
How about this?
No! Not that! Anything but that!
How about these?
Oh, but those brighten up the whole room! They're my favorite accent!
Then let's lose the curtains! The room wouldn't need brightening if they weren't making it so dark!
Not them! They're my favorite too!
[growls] They can't all be your favorite! Okay, I'm taking down the portrait. We all know what we look like.
[huffs] Well, the room still looks a little bit cluttered, doesn't it? Perhaps I'll take down a poster or two. Only to be helpful, of course!
Okay, everypony calm down. I'm sure we can find a way to remove the clutter together.
You're absolutely right, dear.
Hey, those are my warmin' quilts!
Together!
Fluttershy, tell your birds to stop pecking at my balloons!
I guess they must not like being scared out of their wits by exploding confetti cannons or something.
But we can't get rid of the cannons! I don't remember where I hid them.
Allow me to help.
Oh, no, I'll help you.
Not if I help you first!
[sighs] Great suggestion, Spike. I feel totally relaxed.
[joints cracking] Ow. Ow. Ow. Ow. Ow...
You want to hop on? Maybe I can get us to the castle faster.
[cracks] Ow! I mean... how... nice is this day? I was hoping we could take the scenic way back.
I don't know.
Come on. Walking is good for post-massage circulation.
Really? I've never heard that theory.
[sighs] I really miss this place, Spike. We had so many wonderful memories here.
We did, didn't we...?
Oh, Spike, I'm so sorry. Of course losing the Golden Oak Library was hard for you too. [beat] I've got an idea. Why don't we have the girls add some things to make the castle feel more like your home as well?
Really?
Hop on!
Ow! What are you doing?
I, um... I just thought of what I want!
Oh, okay. What is it?
It's a... well, I want a... it's... I kind of need a... a bed!
I thought you said you sleep like a baby in the castle.
[scoffs] Everypony knows babies are terrible sleepers. Let's go!
There! Now nothing is cluttering the castle!
You're right. There is literally nothing cluttering this castle.
What do we do now?
I hate to be the bearer of more bad news, but it's almost sunset. If we don't figure this out soon, it's going to look like we didn't lift a hoof to help her!
Why is this so hard?! We're Twilight's best friends! This should be easy for us!
She said it herself – if anypony should be able to make her feel comfortable in her new home, it's us. If we can't do it...
Then Twilight will be stuck living in a castle that makes her feel... sad!
Wow, Fluttershy! I didn't know you could be loud enough to echo!
Calm down, Pinkie. We just need to figure out what we did wrong so we can make it right.
Well, I didn't do anything wrong! I did exactly what I would do if this were my home!
But it's not your home. It's Twilight's home!
Where she keeps all her Rainbow Dash trophies?
Touché.
Maybe we're all a little guilty of making ourselves feel at home instead of Twilight.
Come on, y'all. We just need to think about Twilight. What was it she'd loved about livin' in the Golden Oak Library?
Oh, everything! The books, the smell of books, the joy she felt from organizing books...
Remember that time I crashed into all those books attempting my sonic rainboom after you guys just cleaned up? [laughs, sighs] That was good times.
Yeah, for you, maybe.
Oh, and Applejack, remember when we were stuck having a sleepover there? That turned out to be so much fun!
Remember the time it got blown up to smithereens?! Wait, no, that was the worst.
We had a lot of good memories there, though. That's what made the Golden Oak Library home.
Yeah...
[gasps] That's it!
How's that one? Too soft? Too hard? Too lumpy?
Um... Just right! I'll take it!
Oh, thank goodness. I thought you'd never find one you liked! Let's find a salespony and get out of here.
Sounds good to meee—I... nn, um, uh, heh... did you hear that? [mimes squeaky springs] Too squeaky! Better keep looking!
[sighs] Maybe my plan won't work after all.
Of course it will, darling. I can see it! You and Fluttershy stay here. Rainbow Dash and Pinkie Pie, you come with me. We're going shopping! We'll meet back at the castle.
nan
It's not the things that ya gather 'round
It's not how much you own
The things that hold the meaning in your life Are the memories you've sown
So we make, so we make, so we make This castle a home So we make, so we make This castle a home So we make, so we make This castle a home!
Hello? We're home!
Welcome home!
Oh, I, uh... love what you've done with the place. You did such a good job of... preserving the integrity of the original design.
Aw, come on! It looks exactly the same! Do you know how hard it was to keep her from coming back here?! I never want to see another dust ruffle as long as I live!
Wait. Keep me from coming back here?
[laughs nervously] It took a teensy bit longer than we thought.
What really makes home feel like home isn't what it looks like. It's the memories you make when you're there.
So we've made something that celebrates the memories we've made with you since you moved to Ponyville.
The ornaments on the chandelier are reminders of all the fun we've had together.
That one shows your party at the Golden Oak Library welcoming you to Ponyville!
The time we shared donuts after the Grand Galloping Gala!
We were hoping that being able to look at your beautiful old memories would inspire you to make new ones.
And the best part of it is, it's made from the roots of the Golden Oak Library, so you'll never forget where you came from.
It's exactly what the castle needed. And I am ready to make new memories here.
Then let's start right now with a new memory cake! Seven layer what's-that-flavor mystery surprise! These might be chocolate chips or they might be super-spicy black beans!
Let's go to the dining room. It's a little sparse, but [door opens] at least there's a table and chairs. Whoa! What happened in here? Last I checked, this place was empty!
I couldn't help myself! It was just begging for the personal touch!
Truth be told... I couldn't either. Your kitchen might have some rustic farm decor, Twilight.
And there may or may not be some Daring Do posters up in your library.
And some stuffed animals in your bedroom.
What was that?!
[sighs] One of Pinkie Pie's confetti cannons.
What? It's not my fault I hid them so well!
[simultaneously] Oh, Pinkie...
Hear ye, hear ye! This meeting of the Cutie Mark Crusaders is now in session! Who wants to do roll-call?
I'm pretty sure we're all here.
Yeah. Apple Bloom, what's this all about?
Oh, nothin'... except this letter from Babs Seed sayin' she's got her cutie mark!
What?!
She says it's a pair of scissors!
So... she's good at cutting stuff?
Of course! She was always fussing with her bangs and tail! I'll bet she grows up to be a celebrity stylist!
But if she spends all her time cuttin' hair, who's gonna run the Manehattan CMCs?
Well, not Babs. She can't be a Cutie Mark Crusader if she's already got her cutie mark.
Oh, wow. I guess you're right.
I'm glad she's happy, but I sure wouldn't want to be up to my flank in mane hair all day. Can you imagine getting stuck with a cutie mark you didn't like?
No... or at least I hadn't...
Don't worry, Apple Bloom. Most of your family has apple-related cutie marks. I bet yours will be, too. And what's not to like about apples?
There's the core, and sour apples, and rotten apples, and apples with worms in them— What?
Not helping.
I guess I just spent so much time worryin' about how to get a cutie mark, I never even thought about what would happen after. There's just so many things I never considered.
I'm sure there are, but you don't need to—
What if I finally get my cutie mark and I don't like it? What if I get my cutie mark and nopony likes me?
Well, that's just ridicu—
What if the Crusaders drift apart? I mean, we won't really be the Cutie Mark Crusaders anymore! [gasps] What if it's not an apple?! Will I have to move out?! Where will I live?!
All right, that's enough, sugarcube. Those are way too many questions to answer all in one night.
But—
And nopony's gonna make ya move out.
Are you sure, Applejack?
Of course, I'm sure. Now get some sleep. You'll see. Everything will be better in the mornin'. Hush now, little sister You're loved by all you know You'll never lose their friendship No matter where you go
There ain't no call to worry So don't you cry or fret A cutie mark won't change you No matter what you get
[yawns] No matter what I get.
Hoo-ee! Nothin' like a good night's sleep!
[muffled] Breakfast!
You were right, Applejack! I feel much better! I don't know what I was so worried about last night!
See, now what did I tell you? A good night's sleep'll fix just about an— Well, no wonder you were so worked up!
What? What is it?
Looks like somepony got her cutie mark!
[gasps] I can't believe it! I got my cutie mark! I got my cutie mark! [rumbling and echoing] I got my cutie mark! Wait 'til I tell the others that my cutie mark is a... a... What is it?
I have no idea what it means.
Infestations? You mean like... parasprites?
Hah, please. Anypony with a trombone can get rid of parasprites. I'm talking about the serious stuff! You ever hear of... twittermites?
Twittermites?
Pest ponies like you and me are the only things keeping these live wires from destroying half of Equestria!
Pest ponies?
It's no easy trade! Even the best of us yearns for the day they can move on to greener pastures. Oh, now that you're here to take over, my day has finally come!
Take over?
You're gonna need to stop repeating what I say and pay attention if you want to learn anything.
I'm sorry. I guess this just wasn't what I was expectin'.
Don't worry. With a cutie mark like that I'm sure you've got the touch.
The touch? Oh, sorry.
Now, you're gonna need to be quick. Once these things get out, it can get pretty shocking.
Wait, what do you mean?
Ow!
Hah, told you! And the further apart they spread, the more powerful these jolts will get!
What do I do?!
Call 'em back, of course.
Twittermites!
Bugbugbugbugbugbugbug!
Well, looks like you're all set. Drop me a note sometime at the Piney Shade Retirement Community.
Now, hold on! I'm sure this job is real important, but... I don't think I wanna call bugs for the rest of my life. Hey, where'd he go?
Well, well, well! Look at the new bug pony!
It's pest pony.
Eh, it sure is! Ew!
I might've known you'd end up with the worst cutie mark ever!
But look on the bright side! Whenever you need a friend, you can just go out and catch one!
That's not funny.
Heeere, friendfriendfriendfriendfrieeend!
Stop it!
You know what? My cutie mark isn't the worst! You two are!
[sighs] I hate to think that Diamond Tiara is right, but... this cutie mark sure isn't what I was hoping for.
Why should you have to keep it, then?
Who's there?! What do you mean?!
If your cutie mark bothers you so much, get rid of it!
Well, if you know how to wave a hoof and erase a terrible cutie mark, you go right ahead!
As easily said as done.
Huh. Now that is some serious magic.
Hey! Where's everypony goin'?!
Mayor! What's goin' on?!
Apple Bloom, you've got to get your family out of town!
Twittermites! Here, bugbugbugbugbugbug!
Here, bugs!
Come on, here!
Apple Bloom! What in tarnation are you doin'?!
I'm tryin' to stop the infestation, of course!
Only a pest pony can do that! Now come on! We gotta skedaddle!
But I've gotta do somethin'!
Are you crazy?!
Aaaaaaahhh!
Whoo-ee. That's what I call a nightmare. It seemed so real.
[muffled] Breakfast!
Applejack! You are not gonna believe the dream I just had! I guess I needed more sleep than I thought!
See, now what did I tell you? A good night's sleep'll fix just about— [gasps] Well, no wonder you were so worked up!
What?
Looks like somepony got her cutie mark!
Again?! I mean... I did? Woo-hoo! Potion making! Now that's more like it!
More like what?
Never mind. I'm just glad Princess Twilight's lessons finally paid off!
I expect you want to run off to the clubhouse and tell your friends all about your new cutie mark. But before you go, make sure you do all your... chores...?
Whooo!
Why all the excitement?
Yeah, what's going on?
[coyly] Oh, nothin'... except this brand new cutie mark!
That's amazing!
Wow!
I know!
That's so cool!
I don't suppose either of you got yours?
Nope.
Me neither...
I know it's silly, but I'd always hoped we'd get our cutie marks together.
Me too...
But I'm still super excited for you!
Absolutely!
I know! [knocks on podium] Let's call this meeting to order! I'm sure the three of us can figure out how to get two more cutie marks.
Um, yeah... the thing is...
What?
Well, you can't be a Cutie Mark Crusader if you've already got your cutie mark...
Oh, yeah... Just like Babs Seed... Well, I could just sit quietly in the corner 'til you two figure out what you're gonna do...
Well, technically the clubhouse is for Crusaders only.
Oh. Right. I guess I should just come back later, then...?
Why? I mean, you can't come in then either.
Oh.
Rules are rules.
I don't even think we're still supposed to be friends.
What?!
Sweetie Belle! Scootaloo! Come on, fillies, this isn't funny!
More trouble with cutie marks?
No! I mean, w— yeah, I mean... Well, I got mine, but my friends didn't get theirs, and now there's all kinds of trouble!
Sounds to me like cutie marks and trouble are two peas in the same pod.
I guess so... I mean, if I was a blank flank again, there wouldn't be a problem!
Your wish is my command.
Hey, Apple Bloom. Why'd you want to meet here?
Well, us blank flanks have to meet somewhere!
Um, actually, Apple Bloom, we... both sort of got our cutie marks.
You did?! What are they?
Oh, we don't have time to go into all that.
And we certainly don't have time to hang out at an old clubhouse.
Yeah, we've got responsibilities now.
But maybe we'll see you later.
Much later.
Wait! Hold on! I can get my cutie mark back, I think! Rrgh! I mean, I got it once, right? Oh, just wait a second! Nooooooooooo!
What in Equestria's goin' on?!
[muffled] Breakfast!
I'm not so sure sleep is the cure-all Applejack thinks it is.
Uh... Applejack? I know you said sleep is supposed to make me feel better, but I'm pretty sure it's makin' me feel worse.
See, now what did I tell you? A good night's sleep'll fix— Well, no wonder you were so worked up...
Wh— Didn't you hear what I said?! I was trying to—
Weeeell, what do we have here?
What is it, Granny? What's wrong?!
Oh, nothin', right, Applejack?
Right... Nothin' at all... Right, Big Mac?
Truth is, Apple Bloom, it's your cutie mark.
Eeyup.
Oh, no! What is it now?!
[echoing] Well, I can tell you what it ain't. It ain't no apple.
Nnope!
What?!
[in Big McIntosh's voice] And we don't have room for non-apples.
[in Applejack's voice] Nnope.
[in Big McIntosh's voice] Time for you to mosey on. You can't stay here.
But this is my home!
Oh, and you're gonna have to change your name.
Eeyup!
I think just 'Bloom' has a nice ring to it, don't you, Applejack?
Eeyup!
Noooooooooo!
Ugh!
Alright, this is getting ridiculous. [pause] Whoo-ee! I never thought I'd be so happy to not get a cutie mark. What the?!
[frustrated grunt] I don't wanna see another cutie mark as long as I live!
Back so soon?
All right, whoever you are! I dunno what spell you went and cast on me, but I want it to stop right now!
I didn't cast a spell, on you or anypony else. I only did what you wanted.
Rrrgh! Why would I want you to torment me with nightmares?!
You didn't want to catch bugs, and I helped. You didn't want to lose friends, and I helped. If there's a problem with your family, I'm sure I can help with that too.
I don't want your help! Just get away from me!
Oh, Apple Bloom, you can't get away from your own shadow.
Princess Luna?! My shadow? What do you mean? It's just me? You mean I've been doin' all this to myself?
Of course, Apple Bloom. It's your dream.
If I've been dreamin' this whole time, why don't I just wake up?
Sometimes we can worry about a thing so much, the fear can make us feel we're trapped in a nightmare. I don't suppose there's anything you're particularly afraid of, is there?
Yeah... I guess I've been pretty worried about gettin' my cutie mark.
But if I like who I am, do you think other ponies will too?
Of course.
Then it doesn't matter what my cutie mark is!
Indeed.
But that's so simple! I must be the only pony in the universe this worried about her cutie mark.
Oh, I wouldn't say that.
Scootaloo and Sweetie Belle are havin' nightmares too?
It's been a busy night for us all, but I think it's time to bring it to a close.
Princess Luna!
I know you've all had a lot on your minds tonight, but I think Apple Bloom has something she'd like to share before you wake.
We're still asleep?
Cool!
Well, I guess I should call this dream meeting of the Cutie Mark Crusaders to order!
I know we all got pretty anxious when we found out Babs got her cutie mark, but I for one don't want to have nightmares every night from now until we get ours!
Me neither!
And even though we're all a little scared, a cutie mark won't change who we are or how everypony feels about us!
It's lucky we're all scared of the same things. That way we can help and remind each other to just be who we are!
And when the day comes that you all finally get your cutie marks, you can be sure they'll fit you to a T.
Exactly!
Do you fillies think that Babs is worried or scared about some of this stuff?
I know! Let's put together a care package for her!
That way she'll know she isn't alone!
We wouldn't want her to think that just because she isn't a Crusader, we can't still be friends! But, uh... maybe we should wait 'til we wake up.
Good idea.
There ain't no call to worry So don't you cry or fret
A cutie mark won't change me No matter what I get
Well, sure looks like somepony's feelin' better.
You have no idea.
See, now what did I tell you? A good night's sleep cures just about everythin'.
I guess so. I just wish it hadn't been so exhaustin'.
Look at that, Tank! Cloudsdale's here! That means Ponyville is next up for winter!
You're doing awesome, everypony! Keep it up! We need those leaves off those trees! Once we get autumn cleared away, it'll be hello, winter!
Was that a yawn I just saw?
How can you be tired when the most exciting time of the year is right around the corner? And don't forget the best part – our first winter together! Come on, wake up! Once those ponies bring in the big, fat clouds full of snowflakes, we'll have a ton of snow for our extreme sledding! [cheering] And over there, we can play horse hockey, with no shoulder or arm pads!
Everything's looking great, don't you think?
Almost everything. Does Tank look alright to you?
Well, he does seem to be moving a little slowly.
I know, right?
And he looks kind of sleepy...
Totally!
...just like he always does.
Yeah, ha ha, I'm sure you're right.
Well?!
I suppose his heartbeat could be a teensy-weensy-eensy bit slower than usual...
Okay, so give him a vitamin or something!
I don't think he needs that.
Maybe we're just staying up too late. Uh, too many Daring Do stories.
Oh, that's not it either.
Well, what's wrong with him then?!
Nothing! He's perfectly fine.
He's just going to hibernate.
You do realize he's not a bear, right?
[giggles] When the weather grows cold and less food is available, many animals hibernate to conserve energy. It's like taking a really long nap during winter, and then they wake up in spring. And see? Even tortoises do it! When the time comes, Tank will leave and dig into the ground.
But don't worry. He'll reappear when the spring sun warms the ground back up.
Come on! Tortoises don't hibernate! Somepony put that picture in there as a joke.
It's not a joke.
Well, then your book must be wrong!
Rainbow Dash, Tank needs to hibernate. It's healthy for him, just like sleeping is healthy for us.
[short laugh] Whatever. Okay, thanks. Come on, Tank.
Where are you going?
To get a second opinion from a real reptile expert.
I told you, Rainbow Dash, I'm a dragon!
Come on! You're practically twins!
I'm purple.
But if you don't have to hibernate, why should Tank?!
Because he's a tortoise and I'm a dragon!
Same family though, right?
No!
I'll take that as a yes.
Ugh! Look, if Fluttershy says tortoises hibernate, then I guarantee tortoises hiber—
Well, what would you know?! You're a dragon!
Nopony knows you like I do, Tank. All you need is some hard work to get the old blood pumping.
Come on!
[huff] These things are heavy! Chock full of snowflakes! We're gonna have such a killer time in the snow, Tank. Tank? Tank!
Aww, look at the cute wittle Tankie, all snuggly-wuggly, getting ready to hibern—
Don't say that word!
Which one? "Snuggly"? "Wuggly"? "Tankie"? "Hibernate"?
That one!
I was just saying how cute he—
If you think hiber... – you know, that napping thing – is so cute, why don't you go do it?! Somewhere far away from here?!
[to rest of Mane Six] What are you looking at?! Pinkie Pie and I are just having a conversation!
Look, Rainbow Dash, we all know how upset you are about Tank hiber—
Shhhh! Don't say that word! That's what started this all!
We all know how upset you are about Tank. But you shouldn't take your anger out on your friends.
Who said anything about anger?! I didn't say anything about anger! I'm not upset! And I am not angry! Do I look angry?! [grumbles] Come on, Tank! Let's get out of here!
I need you bright-eyed and bushy-tailed, not sleepy-eyed and scaly-tailed! Which... is exactly what you are. But get up anyway!
You can't hiber– you know. What about all the primo things we're gonna do together this winter? Building snow ponies, starting snowball fights, sipping hot cider by the fire.
Don't you wanna do those things with me?! Think, Rainbow Dash, think! Tank's only hibernating because it's cold, right? Well, I'd rather have him awake in the heat than asleep in the cold... [gasps] I just have to stop winter!
So where do these clouds go?
Over by Clear Skies.
But there's clear skies everywhere.
Yo, Clear Skies right here!
But there's clear skies over there, too!
That's Open Skies!
There's open skies everywhere!
I'm not everywhere. I'm right here!
[sighs] Wait. So you're Open Skies, and you're Clear Skies. Then what's all that?
Open, clear skies!
Hey, where'd our fluffy clouds go?
Fluffy Clouds? He's over there!
Hah! Stopping winter is gonna be a breeze!
nan
When life gives you lemons You can make lemonade But life gave me Tank here And my choice has long been made
No winter will come to Ponyville I'll do it on my own I will keep you by my side So I will not be alone
And I'll fly, and I'll fly Until the end of the sky So I'll be the one who doesn't Have to say goodbye
I'll clear the skies forever So we won't be apart I'll keep the weather warm for you And the winter will never start
Weather-makers Pegasi You make the seasons in the sky I don't want to sabotage you But you see, I've got to try
No winter can come here now I'll keep the warmth and the sun somehow I'm sorry, ponies, this has to be For I need my friend and he needs me
I know it's wrong, but what does it matter? 'Cause nothing's gonna stop me now I'll change it all, it's only the weather And nopony's gonna bring me down
I'll keep the sunlight shining free And I'll bust the clouds apart so you can stay with me
And I'll fly, and I'll fly Until the end of the sky So I'll be the one who doesn't Have to say goodbye
I'll clear the skies forever So we won't be apart I'll keep the weather warm for you And the winter will never start!
Here comes the next shipment! Move those clouds over!
Ugh! For every hoof step back, they go three hoof steps forward! What are we gonna do? [long pause] Cloudsdale. That's it, Tank! If I can't stop winter in Ponyville, maybe I can stop it at the source!
Lunch hour! Perfect!
Slam dunk! With no water, they can't make clouds or snow! They can't make winter!
I hate to do this to those weather ponies, but desperate times call for desperate measures!
Oopsies! Looks like these were a little loose!
And there goes winter down the drain!
Uh, I can't see!
Aaaaaah!
Let's get out of here!
What in the name of Celestia's goin' on up there?
Prepare yourselves, everypony! Winter is coming!
Everypony, look out!
[groaning] You okay, Tank?
Rainbow Dash! Are you alright?
[sighs] No...
Knock, knock!
How are you feeling, Rainbow Dash?
[despondently] Whatever...
The poor thing looks so sad! Just what are we doing to do?
I don't know what we can do.
Buck up, Sugarcube. You just ain't yourself these days.
[despondently] Whatever...
Uh, how can I say this tactfully...? You've lost your sparkle, Rainbow Dash.
I hate to say this, but, well... you've become...! [hushed] A party pooper!
Didn't you hear me? I said 'whatever'. I don't know if you're here to cheer me up or what, but I'm fine.
Let me handle this. Rainbow Dash, your winter is going to be pet-less.
Whatever did you do that for?!
Because she'll never get past this until she lets it all out.
[awkwardly] Uh... it's okay. Tank'll come back in a few months.
Alright, alright. There, there. [hushed, to Fluttershy] Nice going, Fluttershy. How do we get her to stop?
[hushed] She's got to be about done by now. Can't be too much left in there.
Feeling better?
[starts crying] I can't bear to see Fluttershy cry!
[starts crying] It's just heart-wrenching!
[to Applejack] You too?!
Nope, I'm good.
Look, everypony, I know how hard it is to say goodbye—
[crying] I'm mostly sad because you're not sad!
What?! Me?! What about Applejack?
[crying] Applejack cries on the inside, Twilight!
It's true.
[settling down] It's alright, Fluttershy. It's alright.
[hushed] You think she's done or just getting a third wind?
I don't know... Rainbow Dash? Are you okay?
[sniffling] I think so. I feel better. Really, I do. Thanks, everypony. I don't know what I'd do without you. [tearing up] Or him... [sniffs] Oh, Tank... I'm sure gonna miss you.
Well, guess we're starting winter with a bang.
The fun's come early! Yee-haw!
You think we could mess up winter every year? It's way less work!
Uh, I don't think Rainbow Dash could handle it.
Riding that entire season from Cloudsdale to Ponyville was pretty awesome.
I thought you guys might like to say goodbye to Tank. He's ready to hibernate.
Ooh, you're using the word! Oh, she's using the word! And when Tank finishes hibernating, I'm gonna throw him the biggest welcome home party ever! Or wait. Should it be a 'welcome above ground' party? Or a 'happy wake-up' party? Maybe an 'it's about time!' party!
And I'll design him a very special suit just for the occasion, whichever one it ends up being.
I'm glad you're feelin' a little better, Rainbow Dash.
Yeah, me too.
So, you really wanna do this hibernating thing, huh?
Goodbye, Tank.
Happy winter.
See you later, little feller.
Have a good sleep, Tank!
Goodbye, Tank! We'll miss you!
Well? Ready for some winter fun?
Uh, I'm gonna hang here and read to him a bit. That little guy can never get to sleep without a bedtime story. I'll be right there.
Aren't you glad y'all came with me to see Applejack compete in the Appleloosa rodeo?
Totally! This place is a cutie mark gold mine! There's barrel racing...
...roping contests, rodeo clowning...
...steeplechase...!
If we can get into some of these events, we could all three walk off the train back in Ponyville with brand spankin' new cutie marks!
Wouldn't a barrel look good here?
I want a lasso!
I don't know... All these events look a little, well, dangerous.
No risk, no reward.
Alright, everypony, listen up! We need a big presence at this here rodeo, so make yourself plenty seen! I want that low-down varmint to know we mean business!
I hope nothing bad is going on.
A cutie mark-apalooza and a low-down varmint? This is shapin' up to be the most excitin' rodeo ever!
Yeah, come on!
Woo-hoo! Yee-haw! That's my cousin! Go, Applejack, go!
Whew! It's been a dog's age since I got to compete. All the rodeos 'round Ponyville are closed down for some reason.
Well, I guess havin' injured kinfolk in Appleloosa sure paid off then, huh, cuz?
Just doin' my best to fill your horseshoes, Braeburn.
Keep tossin' like that and I'll be out of a job!
Ow, ow!
Ooh, sorry. Say, where's my sister and her friends?
Uh-oh. Gee, uh, I guess I got so caught up watchin' you that I—
You said you'd keep an eye on those fillies! How am I supposed to focus on practicin' if you're not gonna—
There they are! Heh, right where I left 'em... Aw, don't be mad! [beat] Owwwwch! My foreleg! Hurts so much...!
Y'all can't go runnin' off like that, y'hear? Backstage at a rodeo ain't no kind of playground!
Sorry, Applejack. We won't wander off again. But, uh, speakin' of the rodeo... what would you say about me and the Crusaders maybe competin' in one teensy-weensy little event or three?
Look out!
[gasps] What the hay just happened?
You fillies alright?
Uh-huh...
[simultaneously] Yeah...
Sugar and salt licks! Well, I'll be...
What is it, Sheriff?
Is it him?
Ain't no doubt. It's Trouble Shoes.
Is it true? Is Trouble Shoes here?
You ain't gonna shut down the rodeo, are ya?!
All right now, I called for a meetin', not a mob scene. Now, as many of you know, the Equestria rodeo circuit has been plagued by the dirty dealin's of a notorious outlaw.
He knocked barrels every which way at the Hoof City rodeo! Nearly crushed my Aunt Bae Mare!
That's nothin'! He sabotaged the steer pen at Pinto Creek rodeo, settin' off such a stampede they cancelled the whole dadgum thing!
Now, now, it's true we had an incident this mornin' at our own Appleloosa rodeo. Hay bale stack came down right near on top of three little fillies! I examined them hoof-prints myself and, uh... it was Trouble Shoes, all right.
I reckon I oughta cancel this rodeo like all the others done. But dag-hoof it, this has gone far enough! We'll double the patrols! This rodeo will go on! Appleloosa ain't gonna be intimidated!
Don't send us home! It's not fair!
Now, quit yer bellyachin'. I can't have y'all around here with some outlaw on the loose. Aw, maybe I oughta call it quits and go home too.
No, you can't! This rodeo is important to Appleloosa! And with you in there, we got a real shot at winnin'! Come on, now, you head on back to practice and don't worry none about these three. I won't let 'em outta my sight.
[to Crusaders] Ya hear? Y'all ain't leavin' my sight!
I thought we weren't going to wander off again.
This ain't wanderin'. We know exactly where we're headed – to find Trouble Shoes!
But isn't he a dangerous criminal?
We only need to find him. We don't need to capture him. The sheriff can handle that!
And once he's in jail, we'll be competing! And then it's...
Cutie mark city!
Worst idea ever.
It's another giant hoof print!
Do either of you have any idea where we are?
Uh, maybe we should head back and try again later.
C'mon, before we lose the trail!
Come on, we've gone far enough! It's time to go back!
The rain is only getting worse, Apple Bloom! Let's come back tomorrow.
Maybe y'all are right. So, how do we get back?
You mean you don't know?!
Whew! Good job, y'all. I know they need lots of mud for the rodeo tomorrow, but I wish they would've warned us about this rainstorm.
Braeburn? Where are the girls?
[echoing] What?!
Ha! Fish my wish!
Aw!
Dagnabbit!
Sheriff Silverstar! You gotta help! My sister's gone! And her friends too!
I've searched and searched, but no sign of 'em anywhere!
It must've been Trouble Shoes!
Now, now, hold on there. Trouble Shoes done a lot of bad things in his day, but nothin' like that!
You really wanna take that chance?
Come on, y'all! Let's ride!
You sure about this, Scootaloo?
I thought I was, but now I'm not.
So I pretty much got us completely and totally lost. How could this get any worse?
We gotta get out of this rain. There's no tellin' how long this storm could last.
Look!
It looks abandoned. Let's go see if we can find some blankets or somethin'.
[through tinnitus] Hello? You alright?
Surely.
We didn't mean no harm. We just came in to get out of the rain.
Had some hot cider a-cookin' in the kitchen. Doubt it survived.
I ain't gonna rise to greet y'all. Awfully rude, I reckon, but as you can see, I'm the fresh casualty of an unusually unfortunate circumstance. My lot in life, I suppose.
Are you... Trouble Shoes?
That's me.
W-what are you doing?
I'm gonna unwrap him.
You can't do that! That's Trouble Shoes!
Aw, he don't seem so bad.
Of course guests would arrive while I ain't got no pie to offer. Scores more misfortune points for old Trouble Shoes. Wh-whooaaa!
Typical. Bad luck never rests.
You sure that's bad luck? Seems like maybe you're just a little, um...
Klutzy?
Tell that to the flank! Upside-down horseshoe – bad luck. Follows me wherever I go like sour on old milk. Y'all best vamoose before my bad luck rubs off and sticks to y'all. Get along! Skedaddle!
Am-scray!
Um, we don't really know the way back to Appleloosa...
But o' course I do. Wouldn't you know it? My lucky day.
It's actually kind of sweet of him to help us out like this.
I know! What do we do if he takes us back to Appleloosa and the sheriff arrests him? If I get a cutie mark for that, I'll feel guilty every time I see it.
Say there, Trouble Shoes, you might not want to take us all the way back to Appleloosa. The sheriff sort of has it in his mind that you're a no-good outlaw lookin' to shut down the rodeo.
My kind of luck he'd think that.
But... is it true?
Y'all like stories?
Mm-hmm!
Just my luck. I was hopin' you'd say no. [narrating flashback] When I was a colt, I wanted to be a rodeo star somethin' fierce, but I just didn't seem to have the knack for it.
Whoooa!
[grunting] Awww!
[narrating] I practiced and practiced...
Whoooa-oof!
[narrating] And finally, I wrangled up the guts to audition for rodeo school. Right in the middle of that tryout, I knew I was doin' what I was meant to. And wouldn't you know it? In a flash comes this here cutie mark.
[narrating] I can still remember them judges a-laughin'. Didn't even finish my routine 'cause right then I knew bad luck was my fate. That fire for rodeo never did leave me, though. Couldn't keep away from 'em. So I'd sneak down and have a look, and wouldn't you know it? Bad luck would strike again. Just my lot in life, I reckon...
Poor Trouble Shoes. I can't believe those mean judges would laugh at him like that.
Don't you see? They weren't laughin' at him. They were just enjoyin' the show.
What are you saying?
Think about it. If we saw a rodeo clown doin' what he did back in that shack, we'd think he was the greatest!
You're right! He could still be in rodeos, just not the way he thought!
So he's been looking at his cutie mark wrong the whole time! It's not bad luck, it's—
Gotcha!
Just my luck.
Trouble Shoes, you're under arrest for vandalizin' the property and peace of mind of the good rodeo-lovin' ponies of Equestria! Not to mention fillynappin'! And... generalized mayhem!
Wait!
Braeburn? Get these fillies someplace safe.
Wait, no! Listen, Applejack!
No!
But Trouble Shoes isn't the menace everypony thinks!
Sakes alive, what's with you? Why in tarnation would you want me to help get him out of jail when he's the one who ran off with y'all to begin with?! Now if y'all excuse me, I'm off to win the Appleloosa rodeo hay bale monster stack.
Um, Applejack?
[sighs] Well, at least I get me a view of one small corner of the rodeo.
Figures.
Aw, come on now, Trouble Shoes! I'm runnin' out of mattresses!
Come on, sheriff! You're about to miss the hay bale monster stack!
Jiminy, that's startin' already?!
Let's go, Trouble Shoes! This here's a jailbreak!
Ain't no need. Can hear the rodeo just fine from this vantage.
But we've got a plan to help you live your dream!
Listen, y'all, I'm a known criminal. How you proposin' on gettin' me into a rodeo?
Go, Applejack!
[simultaneously] You can do it!
[simultaneously] Woo-hoo!
Well, how do I look?
Come on now, stack them bales! Woo-hoo!
That's my sister!
'Kay now, Trouble Shoes, you're on!
Say what?! I may be dressed like one, but I ain't no rodeo clown.
You got your cutie mark all wrong, Trouble Shoes! You were born to entertain! You've got a gift for makin' folks laugh, don't you?
But my cutie mark's an upside-down horseshoe, and that means bad luck.
That all depends on how you look at it.
You always wanted to be a part of the rodeo, right? Well, now's your chance. Go on!
Whoa!
There y'all are! How 'bout your big sis, huh?
[flatly] Yeah, way to go.
Since when are y'all so into rodeo clowns?
Just leave me be, cutie mark! I aim to clear that there hoop!
Trouble Shoes!
What the hay?!
Female Townspony # He escaped from jail!
Male Townspony # Ruinin' another rodeo!
Female Townspony # Let's get him!
Wait, y'all! He ain't what you think he is!
Stand aside, young'uns! This one's goin' back to jail.
But he never wanted to ruin any rodeos! Those were just bad accidents!
Sweetie Belle, what are you talkin' about?
Trouble Shoes has a gift for making ponies laugh! He's maybe the best rodeo clown I've ever seen!
That's true! He is awful funny.
He thought his cutie mark was telling him to keep away from rodeos, but deep inside he knew it's where he was meant to be. He just didn't know how to do it.
What she says is true. This here entertainin' y'all with my klutzin'? That's what I was supposed to be doin'. I know it now. I didn't mean no harm, honest! I just ain't never loved nothin' like I love the rodeo, so I kept on sneakin' back and makin' a big old mess of things. Turns out I was just a-lookin' at my cutie mark all wrong.
That may be so, Trouble Shoes, but you still gotta face charges for the problems you've caused!
If I done wrong, I'll see to it that I take my medicine and square my accounts.
Truth be told, we could understand all the trouble with the rodeos, but why'd you have to run off with these here little'uns last night?
Uh, yeah, about that...
[sighs] You really want us to clean up all this mess Trouble Shoes made?
Maybe it'll teach you not to go wanderin' off after I say not to!
Ugh. Ain't it bad enough that you get to go back to Ponyville with a shiny trophy, and all we're bringing back is these same old blank flanks?
Y'all helped Trouble Shoes realize what his cutie mark really means. Ain't that a nice feelin' you can take back with you?
I guess we did make things a little better.
It does feel kinda nice.
So... we can stop now?
Nnope.
Ohoho, but that's not all! When I went to look for them again, they were on the ceiling!
[laughs] Oh, Discord, I've never known anypony as funny as you! I love that story about the time you tried to train your right paw... [giggles] ...to fetch your left leg! [giggles] Oh, I do love our Tuesday teas, and I can't wait for you to meet my friend Tree Hugger. She's going to love you too.
I met her on a trip to see the Breezies. She's a member of the Equestrian Society for the Preservation of Rare Creatures.
We're all gonna have so much fun together at the Grand Galloping Gala!
Oh, I was wondering when you were going to ask me. I'd love to.
Oh. Oh, no. Um, I'm afraid I've already asked Tree Hugger. I'm sorry, Discord. I assumed you'd have your own ticket since you and Princess Celestia are friends now. Were you not invited?
Who, me? It probably got lost in the mail. No biggie, as the foals say. Well, gotta go!
But we haven't had any of our Tuesday teacakes.
Well, I guess we're just going to have to exclude them from our party this time. Oh, did I say that out loud? I mean, ta-ta.
[snoring] Gemstones... [snoring] Gah!
Where's Twilight?
Uh, she's in Canterlot, helping Princess Celestia with the Gala!
Oh, your first Grand Galloping Gala! The excitement, the anticipation! I wouldn't miss this for all the jewels in Equestria!
[singsong] We're going to the Gala! We're going to the Gala! We're going to the Gala!
Hey!
I don't suppose that, uh, these adorable little cutie pies have their own tickets to the Gross Gruesome Gala, do they?
Ahem! To answer your rather rude question, they're going as our dates, our plus-ones.
[singsong] We're plus-ones!
[singsong] We're plus ones! We're plus-ones!
Yes, yes, yes, I believe I got that!
Yeah!
Have a wonderful, special, fantastic day! Oh, hi, Discord. Want some cake?
I can give you a list of all the flavors we have in order of most delicious to incredibly, unbelievably delicious!
Actually, Pinkie Pie, who are you taking to... I mean, do you... eugh, oh, you know what? I am famished. I'll take all the cakes.
All of them?! He wants all of the cakes!
Well, I'll need all my energy when I'm dancing at the Gala, if I decide to go that is. Oh, by the way, are you bringing anypony?
Oh, of course! I was gonna ask my mom, because she's, you know, my mom, but it turned out she didn't want to go, so I started asking around and around and around, and I couldn't think of anypony, and I was about to just go by myself, and I realized, of course! Who loves fancy exciting affairs more than anypony else? My sister Maud!
You know what? Cancel my order.
You want none of the cakes now?!
[laughing] Oh, my, you are funny!
I guess every being in Equestria is funny today.
Oh, how rude of me. Tree Hugger, this is Discord. Discord, Tree Hugger.
Radical to meet you. Really digging your vibe.
My vibe?
It's a compliment.
Oh, well, I'm sure it is. Well, I must be off.
Have fun at the Gala!
Righteous!
"Oh, Tree Hugger. You're such a great friend. So much funnier than unfunny old Discord!"
"No, no, here. Take my plus-one. I insist. Before somepony else thinks he's my friend and expects to be asked instead. What's that? You're worried Discord might be upset?" Not a problem! I can make more new friends anytime I want. It's not as if any of this actually mattered! I don't even want to go to the Gala anyway!
Are you perhaps looking for me?
Are you "Discord or current resident"? I can't find any street numbers in this place.
My ticket to the Grand Galloping Gala! I was invited after all!
[grimly] Why is this so late?
Well, I got a little lost after I escaped the flying badgers... Can you point me in the direction of the bottomless pit? I think I can make my way back from there.
I must say, it's been very nice having you take over some of the planning responsibilities for this year's Gala.
Anything I can do to make it easier on you.
Thank you, Twilight. I am quite looking forward to just enjoying the Gala for once.
Announcing the spirit of chaos, Discord, and his guest, the, uh...
The Smooze!
Good evening, everypony! What a glorious affair!
He does have a yen for shiny things, the rascal.
I'll take care of this.
[hushed] What are you doing here with... that?!
Now, now, now. The Smooze may be an "it", but it's an it with a heart of, well, blob.
This night is extremely important to me, Discord. [through gritted teeth] Keep it under control!
Yes, yes, yes, of course. Tell me, have you seen Fluttershy anywhere?
We're here! We're here! We made it to the Gala!
The aura coming off the waterfall was so alive! So, like, magic manifestation.
Wow.
Oh, Fluttershy. I didn't see you there.
How did you even know to look for an aura on a waterfall?
Discord! I thought you weren't coming!
No. I actually never said that. But funny how you remembered it that way. Anyway, good to see you. Tree Friend, is it? Your name is slipping my mind right now. How strange.
Nice to meet you. I'm Tree Hugger. Blessings.
Cool! Like, in another life, maybe?
You've gotta be kidding. You don't remember me?
[laughs] I meet a lot of different creatures, each one of them perfect and unique.
Yes, well, as I was saying, it's just great to be here with my oldest, bestest friend.
Am I really your oldest, bestest friend?
You? [laughs] Of course not! You think I don't have other friends? I'm centuries old! I was talking about the Smooze! Smooze Face, the Smoozinator – well, I mean that's what we called him back in college. Smooze! I would like you to meet Fluttershy and, um, hmm... Tree... how'd you say it... Tree Embrace?
Oh, I like that! It's so in rhythm with my life force! [gasps] Maybe I'll change it!
[giggles] I can't believe I've never heard you speak of the Smooze before. Sounds like you two are so close.
Well, I'm glad you got that, because that's what is true. We are.
Very close.
That's wonderful! The four of us should go out to dinner sometime!
We should all go out to dinner sometime?! Have you no heart?
Oh, oh! It looks like somepony wants to mingle. We'll be back in a bit.
Oh, okay. Treezie and I would love to talk to you more later!
Treezie? Really? Sort of a juvenile nickname, don't you think?
Smoozie! Wait up!
Now, listen, Smooze. I need to make this a party of one for a little while. Just stay out here until I come for you.
What's so funny?
Exactly!
Uhh... I think we're gonna go hit the dance floor.
Fluttershy, tell the Hugs here about the time that we went to the store and came back with two cakes instead of one, because that's how crazy we are when we're together.
Um, we went to the store and bought two cakes.
Oh. Well, you kind of left out all the fun and frivolity there. But I'm sure you got it, Tree Hugger.
I got that you really like cake.
We like each other. That was the point! I'm actually pretty lukewarm about cake.
[muffled screaming] Let me in!
[gasps for breath] That creature took my jewels!
Discord! I thought I told you to keep your friend under control!
Oh, please. I have better things to do than to watch that thing all night. [laughs nervously] What I mean to say is, that thing is a dear, dear friend, and I'll make sure that the ooze, uh, that he can't help but secrete doesn't get on anypony else.
Thank you. It's alright, everypony. Let's just get back to enjoying this magical evening!
[to the Smooze] You are making me look like a fool in front of Fluttershy. I'll be back when the Gala is over.
[laughing] Oh, Tree Hugger, I've never known anypony as funny as you!
Check, check, check. Is this thing on? Good evening, fillies and germs! I just flew into Canterlot, and wow, are my interspecies parts tired!
I've only got these tiny mismatched wings, and even I can fly better than Twilight Sparkle! Am I right? Pchoo!
Hey!
[laughs nervously] Uh, well, perhaps you're into more observational humor.
Did you ever notice how you always materialize out of thin air? Why not thick air? What's the deal there?
Tough crowd.
What is he doing?!
I think they're... jokes?
Maud! Jokes!
My favorite.
[muffled and out of focus] You might be a Ponyville pony when an ordinary night on the town ends in a lesson about friendship! [in focus] Knock knock!
You're supposed to say "Who's there?"! This is the most basic of jokes!
You're the most basic of jokes.
Good one, Maud!
What is that?!
None of my magic works on this ooze! Can you stop it?
I'm afraid not!
Discord, how could you bring him here?!
Oh, he's not that bad!
Oh, my shoes will be ruined forever!
That's what you're worried about? Really?
This is kind of a bummer.
Isn't it, though? And to think, it would never have happened had I come to the Gala as somepony else's plus-one.
Seems like something might have harshed his flow, you know? Like, his senses are agitated.
You don't know anything about rare creatures. I've known Smooze Face for ages. He's not agitated. He's partying down! Whoo!
All he needs is some, like, calming auditory therapy. I know I always feel really at peace when I'm being bathed in positive vibes. Maybe he'll calm down with some sonic bliss.
Do you even know what you just said?
Ommmm. Ee-ee-ee-ee-ee! Ommmm. Ee-ee-ee-ee-ee!
Let go, Smooze! Bliss out! Ommmm. Ee-ee-ee-ee-ee!
It worked!
Way to go, Tree Hugger!
That was the most magical thing I've ever seen done with animals!
Oh, thanks, everypony. It makes perfect karmic sense why magic doesn't work on him. He only responds to vibrations that peace out his energy fields.
Stop it! Stop it! That's it! I'm done with you, Tree Hugger!
Oh, man. You're really bumming me out. Can you just, like, lower your voice a skosh?
A skosh? A skosh?!
Whoa, dude! What is that?!
Relax. I'm not going to hurt you. I'm simply going to send you to another dimension. I can't have you interfering in my relationship with Fluttershy anymore!
Discord, stop!
Don't worry, Fluttershy! We'll stop him!
I'm doing her a favor, Fluttershy! It's a lovely dimension! White sand beaches, attentive wait staff... I mean, okay, the humidity isn't great, but where isn't that the case these days?
I don't understand why you're doing this! We were all getting along so well!
As well as we could, considering you've already stomped all over our friendship by inviting her to the biggest night of the year as if I didn't matter at all!
Did you really think I'd abandon you just because I have a new friend?!
Yes, because that's what you did!
No, Discord! I invited a friend to a party! I didn't abandon you! What if you had a friend that you could discuss chaos-based magic with? Would that mean we weren't friends anymore?!
Uh... [stuttering] No, I suppose not. It would just mean that I'd have different friends for different things... Oh, oh, dear, it looks like I've perhaps overreacted just a skosh.
More like a lot of skoshes! Tree Hugger, could you give us a minute?
I'm just so new at this whole friendship thing. It's so much more complicated than it looks.
Do you think maybe you owe somepony an apology? Not me!
Er, Tree Hugger, I'm sorry that you got caught in the middle of my... er, you know... wrath.
Oh, it's all groovy. Um, I need like a few minutes to clear out my chakras before I can hug you from a place of authenticity.
Oh, your chakras. [laughs nervously] Fair enough.
I owe you an apology, Smooze. I spent the whole evening thinking about my own feelings and never thinking about yours.
Well, friends! I think I may actually grow to like this multiple-friend thing.
I like it too.
Hey, it's not a party until somepony spreads magic-resistant ooze uncontrollably over the ballroom! [squee] Come on, Smoozinator! Let's dance!
I'm sorry, Princess Celestia. I thought I could give you a break tonight, but it turns out I was in over my head.
You have nothing to apologize for. This has been the most fun Gala in years!
I know, it was a—What?! But there was ooze all over the place! And one of the guests threatened to send somepony to another dimension!
I know! Can you imagine how dull it would have been if I hadn't invited Discord? Come on! Whoo! The night is still young!
La, la-la, la-la! La, la-la, la-la, la la-la la-la! This is gonna be so great, Gummy! We have absolutely nothing to do today except bake! I've been waiting for just the right time to finally try Granny Pie's super-special triple-chocolate, fifteen-layer marjolaine recipe! It's gonna be amazing!
Let's see. Nutty meringue, chocolate ganache, praline and nuts, cocoa-flavored buttercream...
An hour per layer – that's fifteen hours of pure baking bliss!
Okay, Gummy, I think we're ready to start prepping the second layer!
Oh, my gosh! My cutie mark! [gasps] You know what this means?! [hushed] The map!
Uh, Gummy? Could you take over for a bit? Hopefully this'll be quick. I'll just measure the baking powder for you... [squee] ...and when the first layer cools, you can drizzle some of the ganache over it. And don't forget to beat the egg whites for the meringue!
This is so exciting. The map is summoning you to Griffonstone, the very heart of the griffon kingdom! I don't know if either of you have read "Bygone Griffons of Greatness", but griffons were known to be—
Rude, insensitive bullies?
You mean Gilda?
Yeah, I mean Gilda! When she came to Ponyville, she was a total jerk to all my friends, especially Pinkie Pie!
She was a bit of a party pooper.
Mm-hmm.
So, maybe Gilda was a little rude. You still get to go to Griffonstone, and according to this book, it has a rich, fascinating history! [narrating] In ancient times, griffons were known to be as greedy as dragons, always hoarding their bits and other treasures. But all that changed when King Grover found the mysterious golden Idol of Boreas. Legend says the Idol of Boreas was made from the dust of golden sunsets, blown across the mountains by the north winds. Possessing the Idol of Boreas filled the griffons' hearts with pride. It's said that that one great treasure is responsible for turning Griffonstone into the most majestic kingdom of all the land.
And why do you care so much about griffons anyway?
It was actually Gilda's visit that made me curious. So I picked up "Bygone Griffons of Greatness", and I've been hooked ever since! And now... [sigh] Now you two get to see Griffonstone with your very own eyes.
Huh? Just me and Rainbow Dash?
Hey, you can totally take my place if you want. [yawn] I still have half a nap to finish.
Why don't you just come with us? I mean, you are the Princess of Friendship.
No, no, if the map wanted me to go to the coolest kingdom in all of Equestria and tour the palace and see the actual idol that unites an entire species, which would be super amazing, I'm sure it would've said so. You two can handle whatever the issue is just fine. I'll stay here and do important princessy things. I guess.
Well then, come on, Dashie! We're going to Griffonstone!
[sigh] Fine...
Whatcha reading, Rainbow?
[sighs] Twilight literally wrote a book on what we need to do in Griffonstone.
You mean like a guide on how to figure out what problem we're supposed to fix?
And then some. It's like Twilight herself in book form. [imitating Twilight] "Always carry plenty of bits. The griffons are sure to help you as long as you share the wealth."
[swallows] Uh, can I borrow some bits?
[voiceover] Upon arriving in Griffon Gorge, be sure to pause and cast your eyes northerly, up the Hyperborean Mountains, taking in the breathtaking beauty of Griffonstone. Once in Griffonstone proper, go immediately to the palace and introduce yourself to the king. "Bygone Griffons of Greatness" was written a long time ago, and it ends with the coronation of the fourteenth king of the griffons, King Guto. I have no idea who's in charge now. Tell the king you've been sent by the Princess of Friendship, and you're there to help with some sort of problem. If for some reason the king can't help, I'd try the Griffonstone library next. It's a little known secret that if you befriend a librarian, you can usually find out anything. Plus, as a bonus, there's a statue of King Grover outside! [giggles] Photo op! And don't forget to sample some famous griffon scones. They're supposed to be the best.
Aw, Twilight should've come along! Then she could see first-hoof that Griffonstone is...
...a total dump!
Ugh. Maybe the map should've called Rarity instead of us.
Excuse me, sir? This is Griffonstone, right?
Well, that wasn't very nice.
See? These griffons are exactly like I'd thought they'd be.
Maybe we should just find the palace so we can ask the king what's going on.
We don't have a king, losers.
Hello, Gilda.
Dash.
Pinkie!
What are you doing here?
Uh, I'm a griffon? What's your excuse, dweebs?
Hey! These 'dweebs' are here to help Griffonstone!
Help it what?
Well... we're not really sure! But it involves a map and our cutie marks and a problem, and—
Bored now!
Well if you don't have a king, could you at least tell us where the Idol of Boreas is?
Ha-ha! Don't tell me you really believe in that thing.
It was the best thing to ever happen to us griffons!
Oh, great. Now you got Grampa Gruff started!
I'll tell you the whole tragic tale... [laughing] ...for a couple of bits.
The first griffon king, King Grover, united our kind like we've never been united before or since! And he did it all with that incredible Idol of Boreas.
That idol brought pride to the heart of every griffon that saw it! From one king to the next, Griffonstone had our golden idol. We were the envy of all other species. [narrating] It held us together – it gave us an identity – right up until the reign of King Guto.
[narrating] That's when Arimaspi came to steal our griffon treasure! King Guto tried to fight him off, but Arimaspi managed to get away with the idol!
[narrating] They say when our treasure fell into the Abysmal Abyss, our pride went with it. King Guto was the last king of Griffonstone, and we all lived miserably ever after. The end!
[tearing up] That was the saddest story ever!
Aw, well... Tough tailfeathers! No refunds!
No wonder Twilight's book ended with the coronation of King Guto. Who would want to record a history that sad?
It's not sad! Do we look sad to you?
Pinkie, I think I know why the map sent us here. We need to find the Idol of Boreas and bring glory and pride back to Griffonstone!
Ha-ha. Here we go – typical pony hero complex. None of us care about that dumb old idol. Don't you get it? We don't care about anything, and that's the way we like it!
I think Rainbow Dash is right! The map sent us here to fix some sort of problem!
The only problem Griffonstone has is you!
Well, I don't care what she says. We're gonna find that treasure, make Griffonstone cool again, and get back to Ponyville! Come on!
Wait, Rainbow Dash. What about Twilight's advice?
What, taking a bunch of pictures?
She mentioned finding answers at the library.
Knock yourself out. But when you get bored with Twilight's tour book, I'll be at the Abysmal Abyss finding the Idol of Boreas.
I'm here to find your missing idol and save Griffonstone!
Uh, I'll need some rope, a grappling hook, and a guide to take me down to the Abysmal Abyss.
And I'll need some bits.
Hey, Gilda! Word on the street is that Griffonstone has an amazing library chock-full of answers!
Word on what street?
Okay, maybe not this street, but on other streets, your library is the talk of the town.
The library's right there, so why don't you go inside and leave me alone?!
[gasps] Maybe it's good that Twilight didn't come... [to statue] It's sad what happened to your town, King, but Rainbow Dash can't be right. This can't all be because of a missing hunk of gold. [as King Grover] You are right, Pinkie! And you've got amazing hair! [normal] Aw, King Grover, you old charmer!
[gasps] I know what Griffonstone needs!
Fewer ponies?
Can't sing here!
But how do you break into uplifting musical numbers with no singing?
Yeah, that's Griffonstone's biggest problem – lack of uplifting musical numbers.
Well if I can't sing, how about a party? If there's one thing these griffons need, it's a good cheer! Where's your party store?
No party store? Uh, how about cake? Nothing cheers folks up like cake! Where's a bakery?
Ugh.
No singing, no party store, no bakery?! What is this place?!
You're welcome to leave [suddenly yelling] at any time!
Well, that just takes the cake. Wait, no! It can't take the cake 'cause there is no cake! Or muffins! Or griffon scones!
Oh, we got griffon scones. That's my specialty.
Bits first!
Well?
What, you like it? That's my Grampa Gruff's secret recipe.
[with mouth full] Ow! I think I broke a tooth!
Well, whatever. No refunds. I don't even care anyway. I just want to sell enough of these so that I can leave this lousy town.
[spits] I can help you with that!
Uh, you think you could tighten the strap on my helmet?
Can you give me more bits?
[sighs] Never mind, I got it. So how deep is this abyss?
How deep are your pockets?
Don't you griffons ever talk about anything but bits?
Gimme some bits and I'll answer.
No wonder Gilda's such a delight.
[chewing] Grampa Gruff's recipe is good, but it's missing one important ingredient.
Don't tell me. "Friendship"?
Uh, no. Baking powder. Lucky for you, I never leave home without it! Now just pop those in the oven, and you'll have griffon scones worth their weight in gold!
Greta!
Aha! I saw that, Gilda! You may act like a gruff, grumbling griffon, but inside you're gracious and great!
What are you talking about?
You just helped your friend up when she got knocked down.
What, her? Greta's just some griffon I know. We don't have friends here! [sighs] I did have a friend once, but you saw how that turned out.
[poink!] [slide whistle noise] Oh, my gosh, I gotta go find Rainbow Dash!
See ya.
[shouting] You sure we can't just fly down? Whoa! Never mind, totally got my answer there.
Just gotta find that golden idol and get out of this place.
[screaming] Whoooa!
Ow, ooh! My hoof! Help! Throw me another rope!
You got bits?
[in distance] There you are! Forget about finding the idol! I figured out how to solve Griffonstone's real problem – scones!
Pinkie Pie, you get back here!
[in distance] Yeah?
[in distance] Can you throw down a rope or something?
[in distance] Lemme look!
One rope coming up!
We need help. Don't go anywhere!
[sighs] Where does she think I'm gonna go?
[panicked noises] I hope I don't go anywhere!
Rainbow Dash is stuck on a ledge in the Abysmal Abyss, and I need your help to save her!
Not my problem.
Of course it's your problem! She's your friend!
Used to be.
Can't you remember when she was?
Yeah. Of course.
Doesn't that griffon know she's supposed to fly at the Junior Speedsters Flight Camp?
Maybe she just doesn't want to make you look bad! Hey there, I'm Rainbow Dash! And you are...?
Uh... G-G-G-G-Gilda.
You sure about that? Stick with me, Gilda, and those guys won't give you any more guff. Whoa! You're awesome!
[laughing] You too, Rainbow Dash!
Well, Gilda, let's show these guys how it's done!
Junior Speedsters are our lives,
Skybound soars and daring dives,
Junior Speedsters, it's our quest to someday be the very best!
Fine. I'll help her. But that doesn't make me her friend.
Duly noted. [to the audience] Except it does!
Hang on, loser! I'm coming!
What took you so long, doofus?!
Rainbow Dash! I'm coming for you!
Gotcha!
I'm slipping!
The idol!
You're more important to me than some dumb chunk of gold.
Hugging later, climbing now!
I'm really sorry about how I treated you two.
Thanks, Gilda.
Apology accepted.
And I'm just sorry we didn't get your idol back. Now we'll never be able to solve Griffonstone's problem.
That's what I was trying to tell you! The map didn't send us here to find the lost Idol of Boreas. It sent us here to replace it with something better!
Nothing's better than gold to a griffon.
That's because you don't have friendship! If you can learn to care about each other again, Griffonstone could be a mightier kingdom than it ever was before! And you don't need some golden idol to do that. You just need each other.
Whoa, Pinkie. That was... really sappy.
Eh, what can I say? That's how I roll. Go on, Gilda! Go make a friend!
I don't know, Pinkie. You really think these griffons are up for this? We aren't exactly in Ponyville, you know.
Okay, so she was really weirded out until I gave her the scone. Then she tried it and said it tasted good! That's the first nice thing anygriffon's ever said to me!
Whoa, Pinkie. I guess that really was the problem we needed to solve.
Well, we'd better be heading home.
What? Y-Y-You want me to spread friendship here by myself?! How am I supposed to do that?! I haven't even made one single friend yet!
No, you haven't. You've made two.
[tearing up] Hugging! Hugging now!
But you'll come back and visit, right?
Just try and stop us!
[to statue] See ya later, you old charmer.
Uh, Pinkie? Who are you talking to?
Nopony! Come on, let's go home and see how Gummy did with Granny Pie's marjolaine recipe!
I'll never understand the ponies in this town! Everywhere I went, they were all gussied up and lookin' at me funny! Kept asking if I was "nervous"!
Did they forget the wedding is tomorrow?
Oh, maybe they're just as excited for us to be married as I am.
Well, they're going to feel awfully silly when they realize they've got the wrong date. [gasps] The invitations are wrong! This says the wedding is today!
But I got such a good deal on them...
Everypony in town got these! The princesses have even RSVP'd!
I told you we should have eloped!
Oh, dear. The caterer, the flowers, the musicians! We've got to move it all to today!
What?!
Where's my wedding planner?!
Muffin?
I really messed up on those invitations! I feel just awful, Doc!
Hmph! Perhaps that explains why I never got mine!
I told Cranky I could get 'em printed for cheap, but that meant hiring somepony with no experience using a printing press.
Oh, I wish there was a way I could go back in time and fix all this.
Dr. Going back in time is old thinking, my friend. I was working off a cutting-edge theory of making time come forward to you.
Dr. My life's work, decades – centuries, really – of research and experimentation, and I nearly had it cracked! Turns out there's a magic spell for it. Who knew?
Dr. But there are so many things that magic can't explain, where science and mathematics are the real magic!
Like these? They're pretty.
Dr. Ah, yes, my flameless fireworks. I never could quite figure out how to get them to ignite.
How did you learn to make all this stuff anyway?
Dr. I've been studying science my whole life. Ever since a particularly traumatic experience as a foal, I've been looking for ways to make sense of the world around me. Science provides explanations of things we never thought possible! Now, why did we come here again?
Yeah. Oh! Because I accidentally sent out invitations for Cranky and Matilda's wedding with today's date instead of tomorrow's!
Dr. Great whickering stallions! I completely forgot! And I still need to get my suit tailored!
Dr. [to DJ Pon-3] Please! You've got to help me! I lost track of time, unbelievably, and forgot that the wedding is this afternoon! [completely drowned out by hip-hop] Have you seen Rarity? She's got to alter the sleeves on my suit, and she's got to do it now! Oh, ha-ha, thank goodness. Lead on, my friend.
Dr. Er, why have you brought me here? Rarity would never set hoof in—
Dr. Great whickering stallions, they've got style! Gentlecolts! I'm facing certain calamity, and I couldn't help noticing your remarkable fashion sense. Could I have the name of your incredible tailor?
Oh, yeah, man. His name is me.
Dr. "Me". What an unfortunate name.
No, man, like, I manufacture all of my own garments. We all do, man.
Dr. Then you've got to help me! I need this suit tailored! It's an emergency!
[laughs] Sorry, man, we're just about to start the finals.
Dr. What's this word you keep using – "man"?
I dunno, man, but guess what? Our fourth didn't show, so if you roll with us, we'll alter your suit for you.
Dr. I'm sorry, gentlecolts, but I will not bowl. The splits, the spares! There are simply too many variables!
Variables? What are you talking about, man? Just throw the ball straight!
Dr. Hold on. Straight?
Dr. Very well. I'll try your "straight" technique. It just might be crazy enough to work.
Do we know what they're on about?
The way they're huddled up like that, I'd say it's either a friendship problem or a monster attack.
A monster attack?! Blast! I'm performing at the ceremony this afternoon, and I still haven't sorted out what to play. How am I meant to practice with a monster invading Ponyville?
Maybe it's just a friendship problem, and it'll all be cleared up in half an hour or so.
[groan] I hope so.
Where's Pinkie Pie?! I need my wedding planner!
Oh, no! On my wedding day?! Somepony's gotta help me! You!
Me?
I need to move an entire wedding from tomorrow to today!
But nopony's asked me to organize anything since Twilight came to town.
So you'll do it?
I used to be the best organizer in all of Ponyville. You bet I'll—
Whoa!
Come on! We better get to the salon before that monster flattens it!
What am I gonna do? [gasp] Matilda! I feel so bad about the invitations! Is there anything I can do—
FLOWERS!
You want Matilda's arrangements... today?!
This is awful!
The horror, the horror!
So there's no way you can do it?
We don't even have Matilda's flowers in yet, much less arranged! [gasps] This is a disaster!
Okay. Thanks anyway.
[gasps] Look, girls! A broken stem on one of the zinnias!
Whaaat?!
Oh, the horror, the horror!
I have to admit, when Matilda said we needed this place ready by today, I was a little nervous.
With you by my side, I knew we'd get it done in time.
There is nothing like a best friend, is there?
Anything's possible when you know somepony as well as we know each other!
What was that?
There's some monster attacking Ponyville or something.
What is it this time? A creature from the Everfree Forest?
Did you say bugbear? It found me!
What are you talking about, Bon Bon?
My name isn't Bon Bon. It's "Special Agent Sweetie Drops". I work for a super-secret anti-monster agency in Canterlot, or at least I did until the bugbear went missing from Tartarus a few years back.
What are you talking about?
When it escaped, we had to shutter the whole agency. Every last shred of evidence of the organization's existence was destroyed. Celestia demanded complete deniability.
...What?
It was me who captured the bugbear. I had to go deep cover here in Ponyville and assume the name Bon Bon. I never thought it'd be able to track me, but now it has.
Are you saying our whole friendship was based on a lie?!
I'm sorry, Lyra! I couldn't tell you for your own protection!
B-b-but the lunches! The-the long talks! The benches we sat on! [tearing up] None of that was real?!
It was all real. You're my very best friend.
I've got to go find a crowd to blend into before I put you in danger! I'll see you at the wedding.
Fine! But we're going to talk about this later!
I need my ring today, no matter the cost! ...As long as it doesn't cost any extra.
Seven/ten split, man. Harshest of the harsh. But if you pick this up, we win the whole shebang!
Doc! I've finally figured out how I can help! Your flameless fireworks look just like flowers! I'll use them for the wedding!
Dr. Great whickering stallions! Wait!
Dr. Wait! The flameless fireworks are extremely volatile! Without knowing what the trigger is, they could go off at any moment! My word, is that a bugbear?
Oh, there are so many things I'm forgetting! I hope Cranky remembers to tell the musicians! Oh! Oh! I'll never get my mane done in time!
You must relax, my dear! We can handle anything! We once did a pony's hair during the ceremony!
Oh, it's true, it's true! They really are the best! Matilda, I've just got to say, I already feel like we're family.
You do?
Of course! I'm Steven Magnet, Cranky's best beast!
You're Steven Magnet?
Well, what'd you expect, a bugbear? I've known Cranky forev-er! Surely he must have told you about the time he saved me from Flash Freeze Lake?
...You're Steven Magnet.
Oh, I know, I know! Typical Cranky, to leave out minor details, like the fact that I'm, y'know, a sea monster, right? [laughs] I just love that old burro!
I'm sorry, Steven. I guess I assumed you were a pony. And I had no idea you had such adventures together.
Oh, honey, you don't know the half of it! But let me tell you something. In all that we've been through together, the only thing he ever cared about was finding you.
Really?
He is the sweetest thing, isn't he? All the stress I've put myself through. All the stress I've put him through. The only thing that matters is that we're together. The wedding isn't the important thing – the marriage is.
[laughing] Oh, goodness gracious. If you believe that, I have got a bridge to sell you! All these ponies traveling to Ponyville, putting on uncomfortable clothes, sitting through a long ceremony, you think any of them care about the marriage? [laughing] Honey, the wedding is everything.
[gasps] That's more like it!
Stop! I'm going to be late for the wedding!
Something like that might work.
[hushed] What do you mean you left it on the counter?!
[hushed] I thought you were bringing it!
[hushed] [groans] Well, this is just wonderful!
[hushed] I handled the gift for Cadance and Shining Armor! You were supposed to do this one, remember?
[hushed] Well, we can't just come to this wedding empty-hoofed!
[sighs] It's alright. He always cries at weddings.
...Usually it's not until the wedding starts.
Attention, everypony! Our friends have done it! They've defeated the bugbear!
[to Lyra] Hey.
Hello.
So, uh, you didn't happen to mention our earlier conversation about my [hushed through gritted teeth] secret identity [normal] to anypony, did you?
No. I did not. And you're not the only one with a secret, y'know. You know those expensive imported oats you were saving for a special occasion? I cooked them up and ate them! All of them! [laughs] It's sort of thrilling to reveal your deepest, darkest secrets!
[laughs] That's what best friends are for.
[hushed] Next time, you can just bring your own gift, and I'll bring mine.
[hushed] Fine.
Dr. There you are! My suit has vanished and this was the only thing left in my closet! How do I look?
Like a million bits!
Dr. Great whickering stallions, look at the time! We'd better get inside. Allons-y!
I can't believe I lost my hair! I look ridiculous. The love of my life deserves better than this!
Have no fear, Cranky, my dear. It's Steven Magnet's mustache to the rescue!
Aw, thanks, buddy.
Oh, no problem. Now you get in there and marry that donkey!
Well, is everypony here?
All set, Mayor!
Dearly beloved, we are gathered here today to join these two in mare-trimony. As I look around this room, I can only imagine how uncomfortable Cranky must be.
But I also see so many ponies from all trots of life, brought together by love. Cranky searched all across this great land of ours to find Matilda, and no matter what obstacles kept them apart, love would finally bring them together, just as it has brought all of us together now. It's remarkable to me how a story like Cranky's search for Matilda could fill this room with such a unique collection of ponies! It makes you realize that everypony is the star of their own story. And it's not just the main characters in our stories that make life so rich! It's everypony – those who play big parts and those who play small. If it weren't for everypony in this room and many more who couldn't be here today, Cranky and Matilda's lives wouldn't be as full and vibrant as they are.
And so, in front of all these loved ones... Cranky, do you take this donkey to be your lawfully wedded wife?
You bet I do!
And do you, Matilda, take this donkey to be your lawfully wedded husband?
[tearing up] I do!
Then I'm proud to say, I now pronounce you jack and jenny!
Dr. [laughs] Of course! They need love to ignite! How could I have missed it?!
You know something, girls? We are so lucky to live in this town. I love you all!
Ow! That's where the bugbear bit me!
Sorry!
Welcome to the Grand Equestria Pony Summit!
You delegates have traveled far and wide to represent your cities as we seek to celebrate and learn from all the unique places that make up our wonderful land of Equestria. At tonight's welcome reception, Princess Cadance will dedicate this beautiful friendship statue made up of gemstones from each of your home cities.
Now I'd like to turn things over to the one who organized the summit: Princess Twilight Sparkle!
[tired] Thank you, everypony. With delegates from over fifty cities attending three days of conferences, receptions, and meetings, this is the largest Grand Equestria Pony Summit yet. And let me tell you, putting it all together has led to more than one sleepless night. We're so excited to have you here and to learn more about life all across this great land of ours.
And now my faithful assistant Spike would like to say a few words.
Um, hello, everypony! I'm here to help any way I can. So if there's anything I can do for any of you—
We love you, Princess Twilight!
We love all the princesses!
[sighs] I guess everypony loves a princess. Hmph.
Ugh!
Spike!
Spike?
[muffled] A little help?
Spike, we need you!
Of course! What can I do?
Whoa, what happened to you?
She's been awake three straight days preparing for the summit. We need to make sure she gets some rest today. She'll never be able to attend the welcome reception in this condition. Can I count on you to see to it that she isn't disturbed?
I promise! I won't let you down!
Perfect.
Not on my watch.
Uh, excuse me? Can you keep it down a little? Oh, no!
I'll give you birdseed! Worms! Anything! Just please stop singing before you wake the princess!
Huh. I can't believe that worked.
Hyah!
[sighs] Uh, hi fellas. Sorry to break up your game, but there's sort of an important diplomatic summit kind of thingy going on, and it involves a princess needing to sleep, and, uh... maybe you could move your game somewhere else?
Uh, these are too top-heavy. Wouldn't take much to bring these beauties down.
[strained] Can't you just wait a few hours?
Sorry, it's a public hazard. I got my orders.
Princess Twilight? [laughs] Why didn't you say so? Gee, I reckon they'll keep a few more hours.
Huh. Good thing I've got the princesses on my side.
[vibrating yelps] Aw, come on! Excuse me? [shouting] Excuse me, sir! I really need you to— [jackhammer stops] —stop right now! Oops.
[loudly] Lemme guess, the noise? Sorry, but we can't have a broken water main!
Ugh, you couldn't do this yesterday?!
[loudly] Hey, pal, I'm just tryin' to make sure everything runs smooth for the summit!
But there is no summit without Princess Twilight, and she needs things to be kept quiet around here. So if you don't mind, I'd—
[loudly] All right, all right, if that's how she wants it! [beat] [quickly] But if something happens, it ain't my fault!
"Joe Pescolt": ...Oh, lemme tell you somethin', alright? I worked forever on this speech, and I know I have more—
Uh, hi. Can I help you?
"March Gustysnows": My friend here, the distinguished pony from up Manehattan, and I are in a bit of a pickle, and we need the Princess Twilight to resolve it.
Uh, can you talk a little quieter? And maybe come back later?
"March Gustysnows": Oh, sure now, gosh, I wish we could but, uh, we're both supposed to give speeches about our local economies in five minutes, and we've been booked in the same hall!
"Joe Pescolt": I had the room first. And let's be honest, my speech is more important.
"March Gustysnows": Point of order there, sir, but I think you'll find that my speech is the more important one, don't'cha know?
"Joe Pescolt": Look, youse is gonna have a lot of unhappy delegates on your hooves unless we get a ruling from Princess Twilight right now!
[sighs] Lemme see what I can do.
[snoring] Huh?
Does something need scheduling?
Oh, uh, yeah. Two delegates have speeches booked in the same hall. What do I do?
Okay, no problem. Just put the hay in the apple and eat the candle, hm?
Huh?
Oh, I need an answer, but Twilight can't even think straight! Oh, my gosh, what am I supposed to do?!
"Joe Pescolt": Well? What did she say? She picked me, right?
"March Gustysnows": Hey, hey, hey. Let's not be too hasty there, good sir. I got a feeling she went with me.
"Joe Pescolt": He-hey, if she didn't pick me, it ain't hard to see that as an insult to all of Manehattan! You know what I'm sayin'?
"March Gustysnows": And it'd sure be a shame to see something like a scheduling issue create a nasty old rift between Whinnyapolis and Ponyville.
"Joe Pescolt": So? What did the Princess say?
"March Gustysnows": Come on, now! Spit it out!
Um, she said that... Well, she said that she... she wants you to... share it?
"Joe Pescolt": If that's what the princess wants, what are ya gonna do?
"March Gustysnows": The princess is always right!
Combining those two talks was a disaster! The hall was overcrowded and the speakers just shouted over each other!
Huh? B-but—
Why would the princess have made such a decision?!
I was really looking forward to the "Don't Spend All Your Bits" Speech, but when I went into the hall, [tearing up] a pony had taken my seat. A pony who used to be my friend!
Your friend took your seat? Hah, big deal! Why don't you just—
No offense, but I don't need some random dragon's opinion. I-I want to hear what Princess Twilight thinks.
[sighs] Fine.
Uh...
The princess says no friendship should end over a seat. You should forgive your friend!
[gasps] Of course! Oh, the princess is so wise!
I could tell these delegates anything as long as they think it came from Twilight. [beat] Alright! Who's next?
So, how can Princess Twilight be of service?
Well, as host city, the Canterlot delegation feels it's only right that we should get passes to every meeting and party, yes?
Well, that doesn't seem fair—I mean, Princess Twilight doesn't think that seems fair.
Ehhh... yes, yes, very well. It was worth a try though, wasn't it, old chap, hm?
This is great! I just took care of a whole bunch of stuff that Twilight won't have to worry about when she wakes up! Wonder if anypony else needs the princess's help?
If I can check a few of these meetings off Twilight's schedule, then when she wakes up, she won't have to think about anything but the reception.
Uh, it says here you have a meeting with Princess Twilight?
"Frazzle Rock": [lisping] Uh, yuppers. She wanted me to prep her on all the different gemstones in the Citizens of Equestria statue before the reception tonight.
Okay, go ahead.
"Frazzle Rock": [lisping] Um, well, I'd rather, um, tell the princess directly.
Well, if it helps, you can call me "Princess Spike". No-no-no, it's alright. The princess asked me to take care of a few things for her. That's why I came to find you.
"Frazzle Rock": [lisping] Um, if you say so.
The princess says so!
"Frazzle Rock": [lisping] Uh, okay. Let's start with topaz...
I'm here for your two o'clock!
You?! But I'm supposed to be briefing Princess Twilight on the progress with the water main!
I speak for the Princess.
Uh, well, uh, can I start fixing it again? I'm getting a little worried, to be honest.
Actually, Twilight still needs her rest, and her no-noise policy is still in effect for a few more hours. Sorry.
Hey, Spike. What's going on?
Oh, you know, just settin' 'em up and knockin' 'em down!
What do you mean?
Not only have I kept things quiet so Twilight could sleep, I also took care of all her afternoon meetings so she won't have to worry about them when she wakes up.
Are you sure she'd want you doing that? There are so many things to keep track of at this summit.
Nah, don't worry. I got it covered. I know Twilight so well, it's easy to make decisions like her!
Oh, okay. Well, thank you for keeping Twilight's stress level down. As long as that's the real reason you're doing it.
Well, why else would I be doing it?
You're not enjoying speaking for Twilight a little bit?
[sighs] [vibrating] By order of the princess.
[through gritted teeth] By order of the princess...!
It sure is, but it's also hard work, isn't it?
Eh, it's not so bad.
Spike, I'm concerned you might be abusing your relationship with Twilight.
What are you talking about? I'm a great princess—I mean, Twilight's a great princess! And I've been working hard to help her! When two delegates had a falling out, I'm the one who fixed their friendship! I listened to that pony drone on about gems for forty-five minutes so Twilight wouldn't have to! I moved a polo match away from the tower so she could sleep! And I didn't even eat that delicious looking statue! I'm a decision-making master!
[sighs] Okay. So maybe I did get a little carried away making decisions. But it's not like anything bad happened.
This is unexpected!
I'll go shut off the main! You get rid of the water!
Oh, bless me...
Oh, my! What is the meaning of this?!
Well, uh, you see, there was this polo game, and—
How could you let a water main burst on Canterlot's most important day?!
Hey, don't look at me! Princess Twilight said to stop working on it!
Well, what about these trees?! I ordered them trimmed to avoid just such a situation!
But the princess told me to stop, bub!
Why would the princess make such horrible decisions?! This all could have been prevented!
Please, everypony, listen! I'm so sorry all this happened!
What are you apologizing for? These were Princess Twilight's awful decisions!
"March Gustysnows": I'm about to blow my stack on Princess Twilight, I'll tell you that for nothin'!
"Joe Pescolt": Yeah, me too!
I'll not let Princess Twilight give Canterlot a bad name in the eyes of Equestria! Come on, everypony! Let's go give her a piece of our minds!
Please! You've got it all wrong!
[panting] Wait! I mean, [hushed] wait!
What is it now?! There's an angry mob here that demands satisfaction!
It's just that, uh, we don't want to wake the princess, do we?
"Joe Pescolt": Wake her?! What?! You're tellin' me that she's asleep?!
[muffled] Princess, we must speak at once!
She is SLEEPING!
[yawns] I'm glad you're here, Spike. We've got a lot to do! Do you know if the water main was fixed?
Uh, you seem well-rested.
I haven't slept like that since I was a filly!
You haven't? Well, at least I got one thing right. And it was the one thing Cadance asked of me. Maybe I did do a good job today!
Fancy Pants, what's wrong?
Don't play games with me, Princess! You know why I'm here!
Is this about the special privileges you wanted? Because this seems a little extreme!
The special privileges?! The last thing on my mind is special privileges!
What's going on, Spike?
Um... you needed to sleep. And Princess Cadance told me you weren't to be disturbed. And there was this bird, and, well... long story short, I made a few decisions on your behalf.
A few decisions?!
Well, maybe more than a few, but I had good intentions! Honest! Until I... didn't anymore. I'm sorry, Twilight. I guess I got a little carried away. It-it just felt so good to have ponies caring about my opinions on such important matters. I guess I was just enjoying feeling like a princess.
Well, Spike, one of the most important things a princess can do is realize when she's made a mistake and fix it.
How do I do that?
You could start with them.
[sighs] Uh, hi there, everypony. So I guess I owe you all a pretty big apology. It's funny. Here we are at a summit that brings together ponies from all across Equestria, and all I could think about was myself. You all came here to celebrate the things that make each of our cities so unique and special. But instead of getting into the spirit of things like all of you, I used my friend's position to make myself feel good.
The Canterlot ruby goes here, old sport.
"March Gustysnows": And ours goes here, don't'cha know?
Does this mean you forgive me?
"Joe Pescolt": Sure! You know, the whole idea of the statue is that when each of us plays our own small part, it adds up to somethin' great.
Quite. Just like how all our cities make up the beautiful land of Equestria!
I hereby dedicate the Citizens of Equestria statue to everypony who plays their part, no matter how big or how small!
You look nervous. There's no reason to be nervous. Nothing to worry about. Everything's gonna be fine!
Twilight, tell those butterflies in your tummy to beat it! Making new friends is always fun.
Ohhhh...
They're probably just as nervous as you are.
You've been plannin' this shindig for weeks. You know everything about these fellers. It's gonna be dandy.
[inhales] [exhales] You're right. Remember, Equestria and Yakyakistan haven't opened their borders for hundreds of moons. In fact, Yakyakistan is so far north of the Crystal Mountains, nopony's even been there! Imagine the look on Princess Celestia's face when she finds out we made friends with a yak prince! [nervous laugh] I'm calm! I'm calm...
Ponies! Greetings, ponies!
Prince Rutherford, your Majesty. On behalf of all of us, I welcome you to Equestria.
Me honored. Yaks hope for great friendship between ponies and yaks. [echoing] Friends for a thousand moons!
You must be hungry after a long journey.
We've prepared a banquet of traditional yak foods.
If things not perfect, yaks get mad. Yaks always get mad when things not perfect!
[sniffs] [chewing] [spits] This no taste like yak food! Fake pony food make yaks mad!
Is it okay to be nervous now?
Them yaks sure have a funny way of sayin' "howdy."
They're different, that's all. Very... different.
I think they broke my record for most stuff broken in under a minute. I mean, they even broke the trophy.
All we have to do is show them how great it can be to have friends before Princess Celestia arrives for the friendship party tonight. Now, who read the seven-volume cross-indexed history of Yakyakistan I recommended?
Um... I-I had a thing...
Pretty sure that's what fur's always for, Pinkie Pie.
I know! Yaks are so cool!
Pinkie Pie, can you show them around town? I know you have to plan the friendship party too, but it would really help make them feel welcome.
Don't worry. They'll be in good hooves with me.
Remember, we want to make sure Equestria feels like home. That means doing everything we can to make this place feel like Yakyakistan.
No problem!
Good. Let's get out there and make some new friends!
We know y'all are noble warriors who avoid the so-called finer things, so me and my family would be honored if you rested here in the barn during your visit.
Applejack and I made hay beds like you're used to back in Yakyakistan.
Hmm... This perfect.
You can snooze here all afternoon, 'cause you're gonna need a lot of energy for my party tonight!
[sighs] That wasn't so hard.
Wait! This not yak hay!
Well, we didn't have actual hay from Yakyakistan, but we tried our best to make it just like yours.
Not perfect! Yaks destroy!
Pinkie Pie, what do we do?!
And now, for your entertainment pleasure... Presenting animals, Yakyakistan style!
Animals cute.
Oh. Thank goodness.
Wait. These antlers lie! These not Yakyakistani animals! Yaks smash!
Okay, well... There's still other things we can do. I think.
Yes! These are some of my favorite materials. Very rare, imported from the Crystal Empire to match your northern sensibilities. I hope you'll find them—
...delicious.
This no taste like yak fabric! Yaks destroy!
Everything's gonna be fine. You'll just... make it up to them. Somehow.
Listen up! Tell your faces to hold onto their frowns, 'cause they're about to get turned upside-down!
Hold your frown, face!
Hit it, Rainbow Dash!
Just like Yakyakistan snow, right? Because snow is snow, no matter where it comes from.
[slurp] This not yak snow!
Seriously?! ...Seriously?
Y'know... it's goin' okay.
Satisfactory, I'd say.
It could be better.
[whispering] It's not very good.
It's a disaster!
Pinkie Pie, tonight's Yakyakistan theme party is more important than ever! You'll make them forget all about this afternoon, right? Because if it's not perfect, they're gonna smash everything! And I'm not sure how much more smashing this visit can take!
I definitely will! I think. Maybe...?
You're the best gosh-darn party planner in Equestria.
You'll show 'em a good time!
You can do it!
We have absolute confidence in your abilities, Pinkie Pie.
It's going to be my most happy-tacular party ever! I hope!
Why are your eyes darting around like that?
Pinkie Pie, I don't know what we'd do without you—
Me either! Gotta go!
[hyperventilating] Gummy, what am I gonna do? I had all this amazing stuff planned for the party, but they're gonna hate it! There's no way to make Equestria feel like Yakyakistan. They're just too sensitive! Even Fluttershy made them mad! Fluttershy! Oh... I need a new idea, and I need it now. How am I supposed to make this party feel like Yakyakistan without actually going there and bringing something back?!
And this is Sugarcube Corner. They're working hard to make your traditional Yakyakistan cake.
Vanilla extract balance very tricky.
Uh-huh.
Do you mind, um, waiting here for one moment?
How's tonight's party coming? I'm doing what I can, but it's really up to you at this point! ...Pinkie? Where are you?!
[teeth chattering] Did you find her?
Angel and I searched the forest, but...
Aerial recon turned up nothing either.
I searched the farm inside and out. No Pinkie Pie. But I did find a set of Granny Smith's dentures under the house, so... not a complete loss.
She's simply vanished!
But the party! It's all we have left! What are we gonna do?!
[reading] "Don't worry. I'll be back in time for the party. Love, Pinkie Pie." If Pinkie Pie says she'll be back in time for the party, she'll be back. We have to trust her. Right? [nervous laugh] No reason to freak out!
Don't worry, Twilight.
When it comes to parties, I think she knows what she's doin'.
[inhales] [exhales] You're right. Let's just focus on keeping the yaks happy 'til she's back.
Piece o' cake.
The cake!
Mrs. One bite, and you'll be transported right back to Yakyakistan. [nervous laugh] I hope.
[chewing] Hmm... Ponies too heavy on vanilla extract!
We've never needed a party so badly.
Next stop, Crystal Empire!
And so my quest begins. I know what you're thinking. "Why go to Yakyakistan alone, Pinkie Pie?" Because I'm the party planner. This burden falls on my rump and my rump alone. If I want a great party, I gotta climb the mountains north of the Crystal Empire, find Yakyakistan, and come back with something authentic! Know what I mean?
Did we go the wrong way? Where's all the snow? Please tell me this is magical sand-colored snow. [spits] Nope. Sand. Definitely sand.
Dodge City. End of the line, I'm afraid. All trains had to stop. Sheep decided to sit on the tracks.
Curse you, sheep! Thanks for you help, conductor.
Cherry Jubilee!
Pinkie Pie?! I reckoned I eyeballed you crossin' my way right now.
How are you? You look amazing! I need help.
I'm dandy as a daffodil and fit as a floribunda. What can I do ya for?
Have you heard of Yakyakistan? Do you have any idea how I can get there?
Mark your calendar, missy, 'cause this right here's your lucky day! I'm headin' north to the Crystal Empire myself for a delivery. I ought to warn you though – me and the boys are powerful tired 'cause we was up all night countin' cherries. Hey there! Wake up!
Counting cherries? How many?
Four hundred and seventeen thousand, two hundred and thirty-four. Yee-haw!
Whoa!
And so my quest resumes. As I stare across the endless desert, I tell myself I will soon triumphantly enter the homeland of our noble guests and return with a prize to make the best party they've ever seen. Know what I mean?
Cherry? Ravine. Ravine!
Wake up! Wake up! [grunting] Stooooop!
Huh?! [gasps] Whoa. I was dreamin' about a ravine. Ravine!
That's what I said.
Music beautiful. Much soul.
Phew!
[sighs] When Twilight told me to stall— I-I mean, entertain you, I thought there's no way I could—
Huh?
Spike!
We demand party! Party now or yaks no friends!
No! Just a little longer!
No more longer! We leave now! Yak go to train, return with more yaks! We declare war!
No Pinkie Pie? What's this?!
Heh-heh. We panicked and tried to plan our own party.
It's sort of panic-themed.
The yaks are going home! This is awful! I wanted to surprise Princess Celestia. Now the only surprise is that I may have just started a war.
There we were, face-to-face with Falling Pony Ravine. Down, down, down! And then, suddenly... Pow! We were rescued mid-air by the Wonderbolts! And then they gave me a ride to Manehattan, I joined a traveling band, we played some shows here and there, got popular, almost made it big until creative differences tore us apart. And that's when I knew I had to get back on with my journey to the Crystal Empire, the gateway to Yakyakistan! And so here I am. It was a major adventure that took most of the afternoon. Know what I mean?
This is it. The northern boundary of the Crystal Empire. Beyond lies Yakyakistan. Nopony who's attempted this climb has ever returned. Are you sure you have to do this?
I do.
Good luck, Pinkie Pie.
How could she be so late to the party? This isn't like her.
I'm sure she's trying her best.
Pinkie Pie's tougher than she looks.
Hi! My name is Pinkie Pie! I'm looking for Yakyakistan. You know, faraway land, lots of yaks? Maybe you've heard of it?
Whoa-ho-ho! Slow down! I can't understand a word you're saying—
[yelps] There it is! Yakyakistan!
Ugh. Is everypony alright?
I can't tell if my eyes are open or closed.
I think I can see a little bit.
Gah! Nope.
Ooooh...
Look at these! Pinkie Pie's made files for everypony in town!
With exactly what kind of parties we like.
Pinkie Pie has a secret party-planning cave?! How cool is this?!
[reading] "Twilight Sparkle likes vanilla ice cream, red balloons, dancing..."
That's right!
"But she's afraid of quesadillas."
No, I'm not! They're just so... [shudders] cheesy.
[fading in] ...oooooooo! No! I'm all the way back where I started! Gummy, I was this close to helping Twilight befriend the yaks. Now I've just let everypony down.
Hmm?
Looky here. It's notes for the party she wants to throw for her folks' fiftieth anniversary. But they ain't nearly that old! Huh. She's already plannin' their one-hundredth too. And their five-hundredth?
I had no idea she worked so hard on her parties.
She may be more organized than you, Twilight.
Let's not get carried away.
I just wish Pinkie Pie were here so we could tell her how much we all appreciate her hard work.
[tearing up] Thank you! Thank you! I love you too! All of you!
You're back!
I tried to go to Yakyakistan so I could bring something back for my party. But at the last second, I made a mistake. [sighs] I worked harder on this party than any party ever. But I'm still just a big failure.
Pinkie Pie, you're not a failure.
What matters is how hard you tried.
Who else would've gone all across Equestria to plan one party?
You know... the trip was really hard. But everypony I met along the way was so helpful. I just wish the yaks could see how friendly and wonderful and great Equestria really is! [gasps] I just got the best party idea ever!
It's too late. The yaks left on the last train.
Um, no, they didn't. [squeals] Trust me! There are a whole lot of sheep out there!
So, um, do we walk back up the slide or... or what?
I never thought I'd say this, but... thank you, sheep! And now, if it's okay with you, it's party time!
Ooh.
Wow, Pinkie. This came together quick, even for you.
What can I say? I'm good at what I do. Prince Rutherford, every time we tried to make something in Equestria feel like Yakyakistan, we couldn't get it right. When I got back from my adventure, I realized something. We shouldn't try to make Equestria feel like your home. We should try to make you feel at home in Equestria. And that means showing you why we love it here, so you'll love it too.
Pink pony work hard to make yaks feel at home. Now yaks happy. No declare war.
Ponies and yaks... friends?
For a thousand moons?
For a thousand moons!
I am very impressed, princess.
Heh. Just doing my best to spread friendship.
And you did a wonderful job of it. You and your friends.
Pink pony, you understand yaks now.
Aww, come here, you!
[strained] Wow! Too strong! Okay, okay, okay!
[sighs] You know the worst thing about you being the Princess of Friendship? The dishes.
Thanks for taking care of that, Spike. After three events in one week, I really needed to relax with a good book.
It's kinda funny, isn't it? All these ponies comin' to you for advice about friendship?
What's funny about that?
You know, 'cause you used to be famous for being such a bad friend.
What are you talking about? I had good friends in Canterlot.
Come on, Twilight. Look at the wall. D'ya see any photos from before we moved to Ponyville? And look at you now – the Princess of Friendship.
[gasps] This is a disaster! All my old friends! I can't remember any of their names right now! But do you really think that they think I'm a bad friend?!
Well, I only meant that you've come so far. You're a great friend now and—
Oh, I feel terrible! I've gotta make it up to them! Pack a bag, Spike! We're going to Canterlot! And make a list of my friends' names.
Aw. Me and my big mouth.
Come on, Twilight. You're getting worked up about nothin'.
The only logical place to start is at the beginning.
Oh. It's exactly how we left it! [blows] Look! It's Predictions and Prophecies! And it's still open to the Elements of Harmony!
And here's that present I was gonna give Moon Dancer! Huh. Guess she won't be needing that. Hey, look! The rest of it's still here!
How could I have let this happen?
Come on, Twilight. Princess Celestia gave you an assignment. Nopony could blame you for that.
But look at the way I left this place. It's a total mess! Just like how I left my friendships.
I've gotta make it up toooo... uh...
Oh! Uh, Minuette, Twinkleshine, Lemon Hearts, Lyra Heartstrings, and Moon Dancer.
Yeah. Them.
Spike! Come on! We've got work to do!
[groans] Have you been awake all night?
I did a little research, and I think I know where we can find Minuette! That is one of my friends, right?
Uh, it's not too late to forget I opened my big mouth.
No, Spike, I'm glad you opened your big mouth. These ponies have probably been suffering ever since I left. Wondering why their supposed friend would treat them so badly!
Minuette?
Twilight Sparkle! [laughs] You old so-and-so! What are you doing here?! Hey, Spike! Look at these wings, huh?! [giggles] Hey, grab a picture of me and the princess, will ya?! I tried to tell my co-workers we used to be friends back when. [giggles] But they've never believed me!
So what are you doing here? I mean, I know you're here all the time, but you never come to see me. Hey! I just had the greatest idea! You wanna go see Lemon Hearts and Twinkleshine?
Of course! My old friends!
This is perfect! I can apologize to all three of them at once!
Let's hope they're not as traumatized as Minuette.
She did! Twinkleshine literally spit out her oats when she heard you were the Princess of Friendship!
We saw you at the coronation. That was some shindig!
You did?
Sure! We see you all the time!
You remember our old friend, Lyra, right? [giggles] She lives in Ponyville too. We're always over there visiting her. Or she's coming over here! [giggles] We've thought about asking you to join us from time to time, but we just sorta figured you'd moved on.
Oh.
[clears throat] So what brings you by anyway? All those times you've come back to Canterlot, you never had donuts with us before.
Well, uh, you see... [sighs] I came to apologize.
[gulps] For what?
Before I left Canterlot, I didn't really appreciate my friends. And that's because I didn't know how important friendship was. But I've learned so much since I moved to Ponyville. I learned what it means to be a good friend and that I certainly wasn't one to the three of you. So for all the pain I caused you, I am truly sorry.
Oh, come on, Twilight! Sure, it might've stung a little bit when you ran off to Ponyville without saying goodbye, but it's not like we weren't used to that from you!
Yeah, we didn't take it personally.
But it's really good to see you now. Hey! Anypony up for a blast from the past?
[gasps] It's our old science lab! I have so many great memories of this place!
[giggles] Remember when Lemon Hearts got her head stuck in that beaker?
But according to this book, you're supposed to add the sodium chloride first.
I read ahead, and to make a proper salt lick, you need to add the molasses first.
Well, I read ahead too, Moon Dancer, and I'm sure it said sodium chloride first.
[dryly] Oh. I've got the wrong book. That's so hilarious.
Whatever happened to Moon Dancer?
Moon Dancer?
Yeah, you know, our other friend.
Oh, right! Moon Dancer! I remember her!
I wonder what she's up to.
Yeah, I always liked her. We just sort of lost touch after you left.
I think she went to live out by the stadium, didn't she?
Well, let's go see.
I think this is the place. Didn't used to look like this, though.
Moon Dancer?
What do you want? I'm trying to study.
It's us! Your old friends!
Ugh!
Exactly how I used to be.
[sighs] Come on, Twilight! We've been watching her for three days! Library, house, library, house. That's it!
Nopony looks at her or says hello or even gives her a smile. It's like she doesn't even exist. Was she always like this?
Well, she always was a little shy. But for a while there, she was really starting to come out of her shell. Remember when she threw that party? Oh, right. I think you might've been busy that day.
There you are, Twilight! Moon Dancer is having a little get-together in the west castle courtyard. You wanna come?
Oh, sorry, girls... I've got a lot of studying to catch up on.
Thought she finally might be letting her guard down a little with that party. We invited her out a few times after that. But she was always too busy studying. So, eventually, we just stopped asking.
I had no idea that party was so important to her. I've gotta find a way to make it up to her!
[gasps] [feigned surprise] Oh, my gosh! Moon Dancer?! Is that—
Shh!
Moon Dancer, can I talk to you for a min—
Shh! What is this?
Eh, a bubble of silence. I haven't seen you in a while and I thought it might be nice to catch up.
For what purpose?
You know, 'cause we're friends.
Shhh!
I'm really sorry to bother you. I was just hoping we would go outside and talk for a bit.
[whispering] I'm sorry I skipped your party.
[growls] [whispering] Why won't you leave me alone? I'm trying to study! You've got the wrong pony! I don't have parties!
[whispering] You did once. And I was so caught up in my own studying that I didn't take your feelings into account.
[whispering] Look, Twilight Twinkle—
[whispering] Sparkle.
[whispering] Whatever! I just need to be alone so I can study without some crazy pony trying to make friends, all right?!
[whispering] Fine!
[whispering] Wait. How did you get into my book like that?
I've been studying a new studying technique. I can only do it for a few minutes, but you'd be amazed how much you can pick up when you're actually in a book!
It's one of Hayscartes' methods.
You know Hayscartes?
Of course! He's a genius!
I have a copy of his Treatise on Ponies, you know.
What is this place?
This is where I used to live. You mean, I never had you over?
Wow! A first edition of Principles of Magic! Hey, didn't I give this to you?
Maybe?
I did! Look, I even wrote something! "To my friend, Twilight Sparkle. Thanks for introducing me to the classics." I can see by the fact that you left it here that it meant a lot to you.
Look, I didn't bring you over here for even more poignant reminders of what a bad friend I was. I brought you here to give you this. You can come here whenever you want and study to your heart's content.
Really?
But first, you've gotta do something for me.
What?
Have dinner with our old friends tonight.
I can't. I'm reorganizing my biology scrolls.
I've been spending a lot of time with Minuette, Twinkleshine, and Lemon Hearts since I've been back. They really miss you.
Look! I already told you! The last thing I need is a bunch of ridiculous friend-making keeping me from studying!
Moon Dancer, wait! A wise pony once taught me that there's more to life than dusty old books!
I tried friendship and it's just not for me. Now, if you'll excuse me...
What if I taught you Hayscartes' method?
So, uh, what are you studying these days?
Science, magic, history, economics, pottery. Things like that.
Yowza! [chuckles] You planning on being a professor or something?
No.
So you're just... studying.
Can I go now?
Moon Dancer, please.
It's all right, Twilight. We're having a good time. Right, everypony?
So, uh... Spike, tell Moon Dancer that story 'bout how Twilight had to read a book about doing a sleepover!
Slumber 101? I've read that.
Oh! [chuckles] Really? Well, uh, did you know Lemon Hearts here works at the Canterlot palace?
Uh, yeah. It's true. I do the big events mostly. State dinners, that sort of thing.
Ugh!
Moon Dancer! [teleportation zap] You've gotta give friendship a chance!
Dah! I gave friendship a chance a long time ago! It didn't work out then – it isn't gonna work out now!
Twilight, are you all right?
No. No, I'm not.
W-Where are you goin'?
I don't know, Spike. I really messed this one up. That party was everything to her. I can only imagine what it must've felt like when I didn't show up.
Hey, Moon Dancer! Look at this spread, huh?
Thank you so much for coming!
Of course. We wouldn't miss one of our best friends' parties.
Is Twilight coming?
Oh. Okay.
Sure...
If there was only a way to undo the damage... I know what I need to do. And I know just who can help me.
[knocks on door] Huh. Guess they must've gone back to Ponyville.
Wheeeeeeeee!
Huh?
[laughing] Whoooooaaa!
That was awesome! We gotta go flying more often, Twilight!
There you are! [laughs] I thought you threw in the old towel and headed home!
I did head home. But not to throw in the towel. I went to get my secret weapon. Minuette, meet—
Hey! Pinkie Pie!
Hi, Minuette! Twilight, you didn't say Minuette would be here!
You two know each other?
Oh, sure! She was one of Cadance's bridesmaids! We hang out all the time when she's in Ponyville! Didn't you know that? Ha! And you call yourself the Princess of Friendship! Twilight briefed me on the way here. We'll need fifteen bags of confetti and as many hooves as we can get.
Let's go! We can pass by the donut place on the way!
And what are we gonna do?
Just come with me.
Ooh! A Brief History of the Wagon Harness! Huh? The Life and Times of Morari the Maneless?
What is this?
It's a party. For you.
Surprise!
Come on in!
Thanks but no thanks. I don't do parties.
I know. And I think it's my fault. Back when we were in school together, you invited me to a party. I was so focused on my studies that I didn't show up.
Big deal!
It was a big deal. And now that I realize how important friendship is, I'd like to make up for my mistake with a new party. A party in honor of my friend Moon Dancer! Please, you've got to let me make this up to you.
And you think this is gonna do it, huh?
Uh, yes?
You're right. This party can't make up for the way I hurt you. But please, don't let my mistake be the reason you can't be friends with anypony else.
We were your friends then and we'd be honored to be your friends now.
[sobs, sniffles] What? That's the librarian! The bookseller! My sister!
You've got a lot of friends, Moon Dancer.
I'm sorry, Moon Dancer. I've faced magical creatures, the end of Equestria, all sorts of things. But seeing how my actions affected you, that was one of the worst feelings I've ever had.
[sobs] Thank you, Twilight. I never realized how much I needed to hear that. Now come on, everypony! Let's party! Right?
Right!
YAAAAAAY!!!
I think it's time for us to go, Moon Dancer.
Thank you for helping me make some new friends. Even if they are my old friends.
Oh. We'll come back and visit soon.
That would be great! You've still gotta teach me that Hayscartes technique!
Deal.
Um, Moon Dancer? It got kinda banged up, but here's a little something I wanted to give you back at your first party.
Princess Luna's turning into Nightmare Moon again!
Yeah? Well, we've got the cure for that!
[gasps] What? My dream ended... happily? That. Cannot. Happen!
Ooh, this is amazing!
[yawns] [tired throughout] Yeah, Rarity. Thanks for setting all this up.
[tired throughout] A grooming day for our pets really was a great idea.
[tired throughout] Oh, my! Oh, I'm sorry. I didn't get my normal beauty sleep last night...
[tired throughout] You know... [yawns] I didn't sleep well either.
[tired throughout] Mm-hmm.
Uh-huh.
I'm totally beat too!
All right, Winona. Time for your brushin'.
Oops. I guess I'm too plumb tuckered out to do this right.
[yawns] I even went to bed early last night... but then I had a really scary nightmare.
Me too!
Uh, only, you know, I didn't think mine was that scary!
Well, mine sure was. There was this blue smoke monster and... what?
I dreamt about a blue smoke thingy too!
Applejack, Pinkie Pie, Me too!
So what? Probably just a coincidence.
That's an awfully big coincidence.
Huh. I wonder why I didn't have that nightmare. I slept great!
So then, what could've given us all the same nightmare?
I don't know, but I do know who might. Spike, could you send a scroll to Princess Luna?
Sure! All set!
Dear Princess Luna, last night my friends and I all dreamt of a creature made of blue smoke. I'm sure you're very busy, but [yawns] when you have the chance, please let me know if you have any idea what it could mean. Yours, [yawns] Princess Twilight Sparkle. You can leave out the yawns.
Which of you saw the creature of blue smoke in your nightmare?!
Wow. That was fast.
We all did.
Not me!
Applejack, [simultaneously] Ugh, we know!
So you've encountered the smoke monster too?
The Tantabus is a creature of my nightmares. It escaped from my slumbers yesterday.
But how did it get into ours?
The Tantabus is like a parasite. My dreams must no longer be enough for it. Now it seeks others to infect and corrupt. It must have learned of you six from seeing you in my dream.
Uh, so Smokey gave us bad dreams. No biggie.
I saw that the Tantabus had grown more powerful, but I did not realize that power was enough to enable it to escape my dreams. If its power grows, it could very well find a way to escape into the real world. It could turn all of Equestria into a living nightmare!
Okay, okay, okay, I take it back! That does sound bad! Really bad!
We've prepared everything exactly as you requested.
Good. As you six slumber here, I will pursue the creature into whichever of your dreams it infests.
Ooh! It'll be like a princess sleepover!
Speaking of princesses, aren't you gonna ask Celestia for her help as well?
There is nothing my sister can do. She has no power in the realm of sleep. Only I can move from dream to dream. I am afraid nopony can help me tonight.
Even us?
Especially you. You have all suffered so much because of me. You need only slumber while I hunt the Tantabus in your dreams.
I know you said nopony can help, but I'm no pony! I'm gonna stay up and watch over you guys just in case!
Aw, thank you, Spike!
[yawns] One good thing about not sleepin' well last night – shouldn't be too hard to fall asleep now.
Oh, my! [gasps] This is simply divine! How avant garde!
It is here!
[gasps] It was such a pretty little chiffon...! What kind of monster would do this?!
The Tantabus.
Then let's stop it!
No, please! I don't want you to suffer anymore because of me. I will catch it.
It has jumped into another dream! I am sorry, but if I am to stop it, I must follow it where you cannot.
Go! I should be able to handle things here. [gulps] I hope...!
La-la-la-la-la! Whee! Whee, ha-ha!
La-la-la-la-la!
I followed the Tantabus here. Now I need only find—
Sorry, can't help it! An idea pops into my head, it— [gasps] Ooh, cake!
Ew, cake!
[inhales] [grunts] No!
Sorry!
Who wants ice cream?!
Mmm, it's so nice to be the pet for once.
N-n-n-n-nice... giant... evil Angel...! [screams] Phew! Oh, thank you, princess!
[sighs] Now this is what I call an incredible dream.
I can see the Tantabus has already turned your slumbers into a nightmare!
What are you talking about? This is my favorite dream!
Hyah!
Luna!
What happened? Are you guys okay?
That... that was terrible! I-I never want to have that nightmare again!
[shivers] Me either!
But Luna caught it, didn't she?
I am so sorry, my friends. I failed. It will be back to infect your dreams the next time you sleep.
Oh, no!
Yeah. I reckon I could live without seeing that thing ever again.
But you will. Again and again, every night, until it grows powerful enough to infect the waking world! After what I did as Nightmare Moon, the fact that I am once again responsible for harming others is more than I can bear.
It'll be okay! Everypony makes mistakes!
As long as none of you dreamt about another pony, the Tantabus remains confined to your dreams. I still have a chance to catch it before it's too late.
Phew, that's good to hear! Although after you left, I did happen to dream that I was eating a giant ice-cream cone with all of Ponyville while taking a test we hadn't studied for. See, what'd I tell ya? Everypony makes mistakes!
But that means the Tantabus could be turning every dream in Ponyville into a nightmare!
It is far worse than that. Infecting all those dreams gives it more and more power. Soon it will be able to escape into the real world and infect Equestria with its nightmare plague!
Then you must let us help you stop it before that happens!
But how? The Tantabus was able to escape Luna when it only had six dreams it could get to!
It is true. With so many dreams to hide in, I do not know how I can catch it.
Hmm... What if everypony in Ponyville were having one dream?
I... can create shared dreams, yes, but for so many ponies at once? I have never done anything like that. The amount of power it would take...
Well, it is worth a try, isn't it?
Of course. I will do anything to end this, including accept your help. I cannot allow the Tantabus to escape into the real world. All of you must now go back to sleep and hope that I can create such a dream.
[gasps] Princess Luna did it!
[shivers] Big Mac! Boy, I'm glad to see somethin' familiar!
Eeyup.
Ponies!
Princess Luna!
There is no time for bowing, my friends! There is something coming, something terrible! No, it is already here!
I am so sorry! I brought this upon you! But I will end it now!
Princess, what's wrong?
[grunts] It... is taking all my strength just to hold this massive dream together! You will have to stop it! I truly wish I did not have to ask this of you!
Then you're in luck.
Yeah! We're already on it!
[yelping] Please! I'll pay you anything!
I got you!
Oh, no!
Big Mac! You can do anythin' in a dream, remember?
Come on! If that Tantabus thing turns any more of this dream against us, we'll be too busy saving ponies to catch it! And it'll grow powerful enough to escape into the real world!
How are we even gonna know when it's able to escape?
Oh, I think we'll know.
[straining] Hurry, my friends!
What the?!
Please, we need your help too!
Fluttershy's right! We've all got to work together to stop it from escaping!
Mr. But how can we help? Nopony in Ponyville has your magic or your speed!
That's true... in Ponyville!
But this here isn't Ponyville! It's a dream!
Eeyup!
And not just any! This is your dream! Anything you can do in your dreams, you can do now!
[clicks fingers] Well, if you're gonna dream, might as well dream big, right? Hi-yah!
Whoo!
It's working!
But it's not enough!
Then do more! This is a dream, remember?
[straining] I cannot hold this dream together much longer! Equestria will fall because of me!
Am I crazy, or did it just get even bigger after Luna said that?
I think it's feeding off your guilt, Princess Luna!
If that is so, then perhaps that is how it grew strong enough to escape in the first place!
Say what now?!
I created the Tantabus to give myself the same nightmare every night... [pants] ...to punish myself for the evil I caused as Nightmare Moon!
But why would you do that?!
To make sure I never forgave myself for how much Equestria suffered because of me! But it seems I have not learned my lesson, for now I have only made you suffer more!
But that means you might just be the key to stopping all this!
Yeah! If it gets strong because you feel bad about what you did as Nightmare Moon, then you just gotta stop feeling bad for what you did!
How can I forgive myself? I am no better now than I was then. My creation is about to turn the world into a living nightmare!
But look at what you're doing! Nightmare Moon would've wanted the Tantabus to turn Equestria into a nightmare! You're doing everything you can to stop it! Don't you see? That proves you're not the same pony you were then! Everypony who knows you knows that Nightmare Moon is in the past! We all trust you, Luna! Do you trust us enough to believe we're right?
...I do!
Thank you. Thank you all.
[gasps] Luna did it!
She sure did! Only... I'm not exactly sure what she did.
Luna created the Tantabus to punish herself! The worse she felt, the more power it had! But once she finally forgave herself for what Nightmare Moon did...
Poof!
Shh!
Huh. Wonder what she's dreaming about now.
[gasps] Was that the Pony Post?!
Oh, it's just you, Opal.
Ohhh... Every other day he's here like clockwork! Not today! What could possibly be holding him up?!
[muffled] Strawberry cinnamon cilantro salutations!
What?
What indeed. I bet you're wondering what warrants such a welcome! Well, that welcome is warranted by a pony that whisked up a warm batch of strawberry cinnamon cilantro cupcakes!
[chomp] That strangely sickening flavor combination sounds just as bad as it tastes. [gulps] Ugh. So I came here to offer you some!
After that visually descriptive and disturbing endorsement, I'll pass.
Oh, I almost forgot! I have this letter for you, Rarity! The post pony was going to deliver it, but after a strawberry cinnamon cilantro cupcake, he was feeling kinda queasy. And since I was heading over anyway, I figured I could do it for him! Here you go!
[with mouth full] What's it say?
I got it!
Woo-hoo! Got what?
Oh, I have been holding out for the perfect location, and it finally became available! So now I can fulfill my dream of opening a boutique in Canterlot!
Rarity's such a savvy businesspony. I'm so impressed she used the huge bonus she earned making the costumes for Sapphire Shores' Equestria-wide tour to open this second boutique!
I take it from your reaction that you like the boutique?
It's lovely.
Gosh, Rarity. I know hard work when I see it, and it looks like you worked your hooves to the nub!
I don't know. Those hooves don't look nubby. They look scrubbied and buffied and pedied!
Well, despite my 'nubby scrubby buffy pony pedi, I actually have been working very hard! However, I never could have gotten the boutique ready for the grand opening without the help of my new manager Sassy Saddles!
Bust my buttons, Rarity! The ponies from Ponyville!
I knew I needed a manager for Canterlot Carousel, so when Sassy showed me her resumé and I saw that she worked in all of the finest boutiques in Canterlot, I hired her right on the spot!
I then laid out this plan, or "pattern" as we say in the fashion biz, for Canterlot Carousel so that Rarity's boutique will be a guaranteed success and those doors will never, ever, ever close!
Wow, Sassy. Your attention to detail is truly impressive.
I've already put a pin in the first piece of the pattern – Beautify the Boutique! But next was the very crucial pattern piece – Marketing to the Mares! Turns out that everypony here loves royalty!
So I created a collection that beautifully revolves around the royal element of Canterlot!
And it just so happens there's a hot new princess in Equestria!
[to Twilight] In every poll Sassy Saddles took, you were the most popular princess! Coincidentally, one of my gowns is inspired by the window in Canterlot Castle commemorating your coronation!
While I've always prided myself on paying attention to detail, I've taken my latest collection to a whole new level with "Rarity's Rules of TLC"!
Judging by this baby, TLC stands for Tasty Liquorice Candy!
TLC stands for 'Time, Love, and Couture'. And while I do agree that this dress has potential, I've not had enough time to give it enough love to become couture.
But the rest of the gowns in tonight's line have met Rarity's Rules and are ready to be presented!
My marketing research also confirmed that customers that viewed somepony famous wearing a gown wish to own that gown for themselves. I call this piece of the pattern Celebrity Status!
So, Twilight, we were wondering if perhaps you might possibly wear this tonight?
If being a princess and wearing that dress can help your boutique in any way, then I say stick a pin in it. It's done.
Alright, everypony! Let's set the stage!
Ever since I was a little filly, all I've ever wanted was to own a boutique here in Canterlot. Somepony pinch me! I'm about to open the doors to that very boutique!
Welcome to the grand opening of Canterlot Carousel!
That Sassy totally stepped on your hooves, Rarity.
Oh, no! Did she mess up that nice pony pedi?! [sighs] Okay. Phew!
Oh, I don't think she meant to.
Rarity, are you ready to reveal the collection?
[under her breath] Is she sure she doesn't wanna do it herself?
[snorts] [under her breath] Yeah.
Yes, I am. Fluttershy, could you help Twilight get ready?
Oh, certainly.
Fillies and gentlecolts! I am designer and couturier Rarity, I'd like to welcome you – again [laughs nervously] – to the grand opening of Canterlot Carousel, and I'm thrilled that you are here to see my newest collection inspired by this regal city!
Rarity, I'm—
Fashion Plate of Cosmare magazine! I'm so honored that Cosmare was able to do a piece on the grand opening of my boutique!
Well, when Sassy Saddles calls, saying she's found the latest and greatest in fashion, we hightail without fail! Now tell me all about your latest collection!
Oh, uh, it's called "Rarity's Royal Regalia".
[gasps] Royally radiant!
My favorite part of being a designer is finding my inspiration, and that really wasn't difficult when it came to Canterlot. Everywhere I looked, the royal city just spoke to me! I call it "In-spire-ation".
Genius! Simply genius!
I spent hours by the lily pond on the castle grounds, which inspired this gown – "Water Filly"!
Oh, the whimsy!
Watching Celestia raise the sun each morning literally lit up my day... [beat] This is "Tripping the Light".
Fantastic!
[giggles] And of course, Luna raising the moon guided me to sleep. I call this "Over the Moon"!
Well, I certainly am!
And for our finale, I have something very special. I was inspired by the stained glass window created in honor of Princess Twilight... I call this "The Reign in Stain"!
Because the dress is inspired by the—
—stained glass window of a reigning princess!
Yes!
Oh, well, I think "The Reign in Stain" is too difficult to explain! [short laugh] Especially for the signature piece of a collection?
But I rather like the—
Fillies and gentlecolts, I, Sassy Saddles, am pleased to introduce the grand finale of the grand opening of Rarity's Royal Regalia – the "Princess Dress"!
[gasps] Success!
Everypony, please follow me and you can all place your orders for the Princess Dress!
Yeah! Rarity's Royal Regalia is amazing! And everypony seemed to love the Princess Dress!
You bet your saddle they did. Rarity now has one hundred orders for her signature gown!
[stammers] One hundred orders?! All at one time?!
According to my pattern, the next piece is The Success of the Signature Dress, so I do not see the problem!
Uh...
Cupcake?
[clears throat] First of all, Sassy Saddles, I would have appreciated getting to name the final gown from my collection myself.
[short laugh] My research shows that your "Reign in Stain" name was a play on words that was both very confusing and quite unappealing.
[disgruntled laugh] While I see your point, we should have discussed it prior to the grand opening, Sassy.
My only goal is for Canterlot Carousel to succeed. That's why I changed the name, and that is why I took all those orders for the Princess Dress.
[stammering] But... But receiving orders for one hundred dresses in one day, [stammering] it's just too much too soon!
Are you actually saying we should... cancel these orders?!
Wha... But... [stammering] Uh, n-no, Sassy. Promises were made, and I shall sew my very best to provide each and every pony a Princess Dress full of TLC.
Oh, thank you, Rarity, thank you!
Oh, satin and silk, Rarity, are you sure you don't want your friends to help you make the dresses?
No, Sassy. These orders are my responsibility. All I have to do is stick to my plan so I can deliver each and every Princess Dress in keeping with my Rules of Rarity!
nan
The rules of Rarity, guaranteed quality This I can assure For each and every dress I vow to give finesse With time, love, and couture
My favorite moment's when a pony sees it That special gown that she just adores That pony's now in style My hard work's all worthwhile Oh, yes, it makes my heart My heart just soar
Oh, to create would give me elation To feel once again some inspiration Come on now, Rarity Give me some clarity Time for your couture love to rule
The rules of Rarity, extra TLC This feels more sublime Soon now, they will see how good these can be With a little extra shine
Is that the customer who ordered this Princess Dress?
I'll take care of her. You keep working.
Uh, actually, I'd love to see her reaction to this particular dress.
Paisley and poplin, Rarity, look at all the orders you still have to finish, and you want to take a break? Now?
Well, it's just I made some really lovely changes to this dress—
You did what?! But every Princess Dress is supposed to be exactly the same!
Yes yes I know, but these gems just spoke to me, and—
Fine. Go see her reaction.
Hello, and welcome to Canterlot Carousel! I am so pleased to present to you your—
"Cayenne": Princess Dress! Finally! I've been simply desperate to get this ever since I saw Princess Twilight wearing it on your— ...Wait a minute. There's something different.
Well as an artiste, I did take the liberty to change a few minor details.
I, eheh, I saw these gems glistening in the light, and they just spoke to me. Aren't they lovely? And so unique!
"Cayenne": [sigh] They're... fine. But they're not what I ordered, are they?
Uh, no. No, they're not.
"Cayenne": I want the dress to be exactly like the one Princess Twilight wore. Understand?
Yes... Y-Yes, of course.
nan
The rules of Rarity Once stood for something But now it feels just like some factory Now every dress I make With every flaw and mistake Oh, how it makes my heart My heart just break
Raving rick-rack, Rarity! You made two hundred Princess Dresses!
[deadpan] Yes. Isn't it spectacular?
And I have a special surprise for you! The latest issue of Cosmare magazine just hit the stands!
[reading] "Canterlot's newest rising star"?
And in the hour since the magazine's come out, we've gotten another hundred new orders for the Princess Dress!
[weakly] One... hundred more... Princess Dresses?! I'm the Cosmare cover pony... I have the most successful shop in Canterlot... I've gotten everything I ever wanted... but I'm miserable!
[short laugh] How could you possibly be miserable? My pattern is perfect! Cosmare Cover Pony – done! You have your signature gown, the Princess Dress of Success!
I don't want to make another hundred Princess Dresses!
I have a piece for that! Assemble the Assembly Line! You'll never have to sew again!
What?! No!
Yes! Then the Canterlot Carousel never closes! And Sassy Saddles' boutique succeeds!
Stop! This is not your boutique! And if this is what success in Canterlot looks like, I want no part of it! Now, make up flyers for a going-out-of-business sale! I'm closing Canterlot Carousel!
What?! No! Oh, you can't, Rarity! I-I've worked too hard to make this a success! I can't be a part of another failed boutique!
[to a dress] Oh, don't you look lovely? Nice to see you out here again. [to herself, hushed] Seems Sassy Saddles isn't rushing to open the door this time. Hm.
Welcome to the going-out-of-business sale of Canterlot Carousel.
Hey, is this Princess Dress on sale?
Oh, no, I'm sorry, the Princess Dress has been discontinued. But there are plenty of other lovely dresses on sale today.
"Moonlight Raven": [flatly] Whoa. This dress completely speaks to my soul. Can I try it on?
Certainly. The dressing area is right back there.
"Sunshine Smiles": This is the most amazing of amazing dresses! Just looking at it brightens my day!
And I'm sure you'll feel even brighter once you try it on!
"North Point": Do you still have this In-spire-ation dress that's in the new issue of Cosmare?
Oh, yes, I do. It's-It's right here.
"North Point": Bats in the belfry! I have to try it on!
"Moonlight Raven": [flatly] Whoa. This dress makes me feel like a princess.
"Sunshine Smiles": And this dress makes me feel like a princess!
"Citrus Blush": This gown is quite beautiful, but it totally clashes with my complexion.
Hmmm. Perhaps you'd be even more taken with this one. It was inspired by the fountain in the Canterlot Castle garden. I call it the "Fountain of Truth"!
"Citrus Blush": It's exactly what I've been dreaming of!
Oh! Well, then I'll finish it, and the gown shall be yours! [to herself] How can I have forgotten? This is what I've been dreaming about!
nan
My favorite moment's when a pony sees it That special gown that she just adores That pony's now in style My hard work's all worthwhile Oh, yes, it makes my heart My heart just soar!
Attention, everypony! Canterlot Carousel will not be closing!
"Moonlight Raven": [flatly] But this stuff's still on sale, right?
[giggles] Yes, yes, of course.
Oh, Rarity, I'm so sorry. I focused on that one dress, and the rest of Rarity's Royal Regalia paid the price.
Well, so did the Princess Dress. The more I sold, the more each dress lost its time, love, and couture, becoming terrible, lackluster, and common.
I think I finally understand the Rules of Rarity... and will apply them at my next job.
I beg your pardon? The Rules of Rarity are only to be applied at Canterlot Carousel! Which is why you must continue to manage the boutique while I'm in Ponyville.
Ponyville?
Well, yes, I'll come to Canterlot with new designs and to see the customers of course, but Ponyville was always going to be my home base.
[gasps] Bobbins and bodkins, Rarity! Oh, thank you, thank you, thank you! And I promise to run everything following your rules.
I would expect nothing less.
"Whoa Nelly": Oh, my gosh, a sale! Do you have the Princess Dress?!
Oh, Sassy Saddles, don't you just love my new Femme Mystique Chic line of gowns?
[gasps] Sequins and sashes, Rarity, they're exquisite! Where in Equestria did you find the inspiration?
Oh, I modeled them after the adventures of Shadow Spade. Her stories are always full of mystery and suspense and, best of all... fabulous costumes!
They're perfect! [beat] What are you doing?
[humming] Oh, uh, just making some minor adjustments. [blows on dress] Shadow Spade believes it all comes down to attention to detail. And so do I. There! Now it's perfect.
Hey guys, how's it—
[nervous laughing] My bad.
[groans] Sorry I messed up your dress thingy.
Nothing we can't fix in a stitch. What are you doing in Canterlot?
I'm here for Princess Celestia's royal garden opening tomorrow.
Oh, yes! Rumor has it the gardens are especially lush this season. I heard that the Wonderbolts will be kicking things off with an aerial display.
You heard right. And Rainbow Dash is here to fly with them. So exciting!
Well, kind of exciting. Technically, I'm not flying. I'm just the lucky Reserve who was called in to be the backup flyer in case a Wonderbolt can't perform.
Oh, don't be so modest. Out of all the Reserves, you were the one chosen.
It is pretty sweet. And I do get to stay in the castle, hang out with the Wonderbolts, and eat awesome food at the dinner tonight. Speaking of the dinner, you're still coming, right?
Heavens, yes! A chance to dress up, be charming and show off my newest femme mystique couture? I wouldn't miss it for all of Equestria.
Great! See ya tonight!
Ooh, the rhinestones I ordered! [beat] Oh, my. Oh, there's been a mistake... I ordered dragon-cut stones, and these are hoof-polished.
"Package Deal": I'm sorry, but I've got a full load of deliveries today. I'm not sure I have time to redo your order.
Of course you don't. Your job is so difficult. Honestly, I don't know how you keep all of those orders straight.
"Package Deal": [chuckle] It is pretty tough, what with the boxes all being... box-shaped.
Oh, y—oh yes, and I very much appreciate it. But if there was any way you could squeeze in one more little delivery, I would be eternally grateful.
"Package Deal": [laughs nervously] Well, for you, Rarity, I'll see what I can do.
Rarity, you could sweet-talk a filly out of candy!
Oh, [chuckles], it was nothing. Nopony minds a compliment. Now, you simply must help me pick out an outfit for tonight. Something from the new collection, of course.
Let's grab some grub!
[sniffs] Mm, is that Juniper Phoenix I smell?
Yeah, Juniper Phoenix is one of my favorite stallion colognes.
Oh, mine as well. It's masculine and yet—
—soft with the barest hint of floral notes and—
[hushed] Rarity! Don't you know who this is?!
A gentlepony with fabulous taste in colognes and scarves?
It's Wind Rider!
Oh! So nice to meet you!
You didn't let me finish! He's a living legend. He holds the Wonderbolt record in the Mustang Marathon!
Well, that was a long time ago. Honestly, I can't believe I still hold the record.
Wind Rider, I see you met Rainbow Dash! She's one of our most promising Reserves. She just might beat your record.
Really now?
Oh, heh, I'm nowhere near as good as you. I mean, I'm fast, but I don't have the endurance to go long distances.
Ah, don't be modest. A little practice and you'll be beating records in no time.
Heh-heh. Well, it's nice to meet you fillies.
[sighs] Not as nice as it is to meet you, sir. [barely-contained laughter] I can't believe I just met Wind Rider!
Yeah, he's coming out of retirement to take the spot of honor in the center of our aerial flower formation tomorrow.
[gasps] Really? That's incredible! Guess I'll just watch Wind Rider being awesome from the sidelines... Practice tomorrow is gonna be so boring.
I don't suppose I could keep you company?
You could! They always let friends and family come watch practices!
Mm, ooh!
Uh, no-no, it's almost impossible to get stains out of silk. But not to worry. I've come prepared!
That dinner was absolutely divine. Thanks for inviting me! Ooh, you're staying in the east tower? Those rooms have the best view of Canterlot!
How lucky are we? Well, we better get some shuteye before practice.
See you tomorrow, Rarity!
Good night!
[sighs] Thanks for keeping me company, Rarity. If you weren't here, well, I don't know who I'd be talking to right now.
Eh, you'd be talkin' to me. Rainbow Dash, Spitfire's mom sent a message that she was sick. She had to leave to take care of her.
[gasps] Oh, no! I hope her mom's okay!
Me too. In the meantime, we need you to fly in her place.
L-Like, in the actual show?
Unless Spitfire comes back, yes.
I won't let you down, Soarin! [squeals] This is the best thing ever! Ohmygoshohmygoshohmygoshohmygosh! [sing-song] I'm gonna get to fly with Wind Rider and the Wonderbolts, 'cause I'm the bestest and I'm awesome and they know it! [continues under] Uh-huh, uh-huh, uh-huh...
Uh... Rainbow Dash?
[hushed] Shh! Let her have this, darling.
Hello there! Friend or family?
Family. My daughter's a Wonderbolt, but I don't see her up there. Do you know Spitfire?
Ooh, you're Spitfire's mum? But I thought you were sick.
What?
Well, Spitfire got a note from you saying you weren't feeling well, and she went home to take care of you.
I didn't send a note.
That's so strange.
Stormy Flare? Aren't you supposed to be sick? 'Kay, what's happening?
I don't know. But I do know I didn't send my daughter a note.
Could somepony have sent Spitfire a fake note?
Who would do such a thing?
Somepony who wanted her out of the show, I suppose.
Why would anypony want that?
Maybe so they could take her spot.
Me?! I would never do that to Spitfire! Why would you think it was me?
I did see you and Spitfire leave the dinner together.
We were room neighbors in the castle!
And you did say you'd do anything to fly with Wind Rider.
Yeah, but I didn't mean anything.
Spitfire came by my room and told me she had to go see her mom at around midnight. Where were you then?
I was asleep at midnight... having this totally amazing dream. There I was at the arena flying with Wind Rider and the Wonderbolts, like I've always wanted to—
—ah, eh, never mind. Not helping.
Rainbow Dash, if you can prove that somepony else is behind Spitfire's disappearance before the start of the show, then you can still fly with us. In the meantime, Misty Fly, Blaze, head over to Stormy Flare's house and try to find Spitfire and bring her back. [to Rainbow Dash] I have to warn you, if you sent that letter, the bylaws are clear. I'd have no choice but to ban you from the Wonderbolts forever. Understand?
[sighs] I understand. But how am I gonna prove I didn't send a letter that I didn't send?
With me! Detective Rarity is on the case, and we are going to get to the bottom of this faster than my costume change!
Yeah, what's with the getup?
Obviously, I am channeling Shadow Spade through these gorgeous garments, and she would say that the best way to prove that you didn't send the letter is to find out whoever did. First stop – the scene of the crime!
[narrating] We had a long road ahead of us, Rainbow Dash and I. Well, not too long because we didn't have much time, but the point is... I was up for the challenge.
[narrating] There I was, surveying the crime scene, and looking très chic while doing it. [normally] This must be the envelope for the letter Spitfire got! [sniffs] Hmm. These look like hairs from a rainbow mane!
[gulps] That's not good.
[narrating] Rainbow Dash was getting antsy, but I had faith I could clear her name and find the real culprit.
What are you doing?
[stammers] Uh, just thinking thoughts. [narrating] Rainbow Dash was right. In order to solve the mystery, we had to be focused. Driven. One hundred percent in the— [normally] Ooh! The damask pattern on these curtains is exquisite! Oh, and this velvet rope-holder – oh, it's just—
We don't have time to look at the décor! They're gonna kick me out of the Wonderbolts unless we solve this thing!
I know, Rainbow, and I'm on this case like a charm on a bracelet! Here's what I'm thinking: somepony had to bring Spitfire that letter, which means somepony must have seen them!
I just have a few questions for you, and I'm sure once we get some things cleared up, we'll—
Come on, Rarity, we don't have all day! [to a guard] Where were you on the night of last night at midnight?!
We were here, guarding the hallway entrance like we were supposed to.
A likely story.
I'm telling you, we were there all night, and no one went in or out of that hallway.
Except for you.
What are you tryin' to say?!
Just that there are only two rooms in the northwest wing: yours and Spitfire's. So the only other pony who had access to that wing was you.
[narrating] The waters were getting choppy. Rainbow Dash's tactics were, well, horrid. It was time for another approach. [normally] Perhaps I should take it from here! You castle guards have such a difficult job. I'm guessing that at times it can be rather... boring.
It is. I've counted all three hundred and forty five bolts in the ceiling tiles two hundred and ninety three times!
And of course being a castle guard can be thankless work. I'm not saying you did, but if you took a break, you more than deserved it.
Oh, you're right. We don't get a lot of recognition for what we do.
Except for last night when somepony was nice enough to leave a cake for us. So we did take one little break when we ate that cake.
What kind of cake was it?
Cherry with a custard filling.
Was the frosting vanilla or chocolate?
Chocolate.
Was the base of the cake decorated with buttercream rosettes?
It was.
Ugh, who cares how it was decorated?!
[narrating] Rainbow Dash was questioning my methods. But I knew what I was doing.
Do you?
Oh, oh, oh. Did I say that one out loud?
I mean, even I think I'm guilty at this point! I really did want to fly in that show! What if I wrote that note when I was asleep?! Do you know what I do when I sleep?! Because I sure don't!
Oh, calm down, Rainbow Dash. We'll get to the bottom of this. There's only one bakery in Canterlot that makes a chocolate cherry cake with custard filling and buttercream frosting rosettes and that's...
...Cinnamon Chai's Tea and Cake Shop!
Hello, how can I help you?
I've heard you have the best chocolate cherry custard cake with buttercream frosting rosettes in town!
Ah, you travel in the right circles! We have the only chocolate cherry custard cake with buttercream frosting rosettes in town!
Oh, no. But somepony's already bought it! Who was the lucky pony?
[beat] I can't even say!
Why? Because it was somepony famous?
No... because it was hard to tell! She was wearing a trench coat, sunglasses, and a scarf around her head that covered most of her face. But I do remember she had a really deep, raspy voice.
What do you mean, raspy?
Well, kinda like yours.
If there's anything else you can remember, dish.
Well, have I got a story for you! The pony who bought the cake threw a big fit when she accidentally got chocolate ganache on her scarf!
That's terrible! What color was the scarf?
White! No, maybe more an ivory...
You don't say!
I can't believe you're talking fashion at a time like this!
Rainbow, don't panic. I need you to trust me.
Trust you?! You've spent more time changing clothes than trying to help me! I'm doomed!
No, you're not! Come on!
[narrating] Rainbow Dash was obviously upset, but I had all my ducks in a row. Except one.
[narrating] She was not going to like it, but there was only one way to find out if my suspicions were correct.
We looked everywhere, but Spitfire wasn't at her mom's house!
Where could she be?
I have found the culprit!
Somepony sent Spitfire away and framed Rainbow Dash for it. And that pony was none other than... Wind Rider!
Rarity, I can't believe you would accuse Wind Rider of framing me! He's a living legend, for pony's sake!
All the evidence points to him!
Peh! What evidence could you possibly have? All you did was ask about cake, admire décor, and change outfits a gazillion times!
Let me explain. I never believed you would send Spitfire away. When we found the rainbow hairs in Spitfire's room, I could tell they didn't fall out. They... were cut! Nopony loses hair in a chunk. And look at the ends. It's a straight line! They were clearly cut with shears, which means somepony planted it! Then when we were examining Spitfire's room, I smelled something on the envelope. Juniper Phoenix, Wind Rider's cologne of choice! Then, in the castle hallway, I noticed some of the damask curtains fell out of their velvet rope-holder, indicating that somepony had been hiding behind them! Perhaps after they dropped off the fake letter?
Juniper Phoenix is a very popular fragrance, and anypony could have moved those curtains.
Precisely why I questioned the castle guards! They were at their post at the entrance to the hallway all night, except for a small window of time when somepony brought them cake. A cake that was ordered by a girl pony with a raspy voice! Whoever ordered the cake got a chocolate stain on her ivory scarf, and I couldn't help but notice that Wind Rider's scarf is tied in a tight Windsor knot instead of its usual loose slipknot! And why is that? Is it to hide the chocolate stain?!
Ah, this is preposterous. Wonderbolts, you don't believe a word of this, right?
Just admit it – you're as guilty of framing Rainbow Dash as you are of ruining that ivory scarf!
Ah, fine! You caught me! I did it!
But why, Wind Rider?! Was it because I took the last broccoli at the dinner and you really, really wanted it?
No. It was because he was afraid that you would break his long-distance Wonderbolt record! I heard him when Spitfire said you were close to breaking his record. He said, and I quote, 'Heh-heh'. That's the polite but disingenuous laugh you make when you want to seem happy but really you're not.
I thought if I could get Rainbow Dash kicked out of the Wonderbolts forever, my record could be preserved.
Really? That is so not cool. And I thought you were the coolest Wonderbolt ever. Until now.
I did what I had to do to protect my record! Sometimes you gotta play dirty to be the best!
That's not what being a Wonderbolt is all about.
She's right! Wonderbolts look out for each other! Which reminds me, where is Spitfire?
I sent her the letter pretending to be Stormy Flare. I told her I had Pegasitis, and the only cure is the ice iris in the Crystal Mountains.
No wonder she's been gone so long. Ice irises are almost impossible to find in spring!
The Crystal Mountains are too far for anypony to make it there and back before the royal garden opening! Rainbow Dash, we need you to fly in Spitfire's place!
But Spitfire shouldn't have to miss this! I'm gonna get her!
But you'll never make it in time!
Then there's no time to lose!
Rainbow Dash is still gone!
Oh, don't panic. If I know Rainbow Dash, she'll come through.
Spitfire, you're back! I can't believe you made it!
[out of breath] I wouldn't have, if Rainbow hadn't found me so fast! Gave me enough time to fly back!
Rare, I couldn't have done it without you. And I'm sorry I doubted you. But why didn't you tell me what you were doing?
Well, I didn't want to get your hopes up until I was sure, and I couldn't be sure until I saw that chocolate stain.
Thank you for believing in me, even when I was doubting you. I'm some friend, huh?
Actually, you're quite a good friend. You went to get Spitfire, even though it meant you couldn't fly today.
[sighs] I'll get my chance one day.
Or today. How'd you like Wind Rider's spot in the show?
Uh, w-w-what? Y-You can't do this to me! I'm one of the greatest Wonderbolts there ever was!
Not anymore. For attempting to frame Rainbow Dash, I hereby strip you of your Wonderbolts status!
[to Rainbow Dash] So, would you like to fly with us?
Would I?! Woo-hoo! Yeah-yeah-yeah-yeah, uh-huh, uh-huh, yeah, aww yeah...
Uh, Rainbow Dash?
[embarrassed noise] Coming!
[narrating] So my friend got her moment in the sun. Or the center of an aerial flower, as the case may be. And as for me? I got a chance to show off my Femme Mystique Chic collection!
That's nice, dear.
Oh, did I say that out loud?
Ehh... [blows raspberry] [sighs heavily, groans, sighs again] I'm bored.
But you're reading.
I've read all these books already.
And...?
And I'm bored! I wanna do something! Things have been so slow around here and I just—
Twilight! Twilight! Ooh, Twilight, darling! Oh, thank goodness! It seems that my—
[panting] Whew! Got here as fast I—
[gasps] Yes! Finally! We've been summoned! I wonder where the map wants us to—
Uh, Twilight?
Where do you think—
[excited squeals] Manehattan! We've been called to Manehattan! Oh, I've simply been dying to go back for a visit! And now I return... with a purpose!
Hmmm. It looks like you've been summoned to this particular neighborhood here.
Seems a hair odd, though, don't it? Map callin' me to a big city like Manehattan?
You may be more of a country pony at heart, Applejack, but the map picked you two because you're the best ponies to tackle this particular mission.
But how will we even know what our mission's supposed to be? That neighborhood probably has twice as many ponies as all of Ponyville.
Pff. Kch. Ts! More like three times! Why, it's not only home to the Haypacking District – it's also home to the Fashion District! [to Twilight] Hmm. Shame you weren't called as well, though, darling. You did end up quite a fan of the hustle and bustle of Manehattan on our last visit.
It's such an exciting city, and there's still so much I'd like to do there. So many museums and historical landmarks to visit. Not to mention all the libraries! But this is your mission. Heh-heh. Don't worry about me. I've got plenty of... books... to keep me... busy.
Mm-hmm.
[gasps] I just remembered something! The Sisterhooves Social!
We'll have to miss it. No tellin' how long we'll be in Manehattan. I sure hope Apple Bloom and Sweetie Belle aren't too upset.
Oh, Manehattan, what you do to me!
Darling, are you all right?
Ponies move so fast here. Not at all like back home. [to herself] Eyes peeled, ears open. Eyes peeled, ears open.
Remember, Applejack, you're in the big city now. No moseying. You've gotta walk with speed and confidence!
Yoo-hoo!
Move it!
Sorry 'bout that.
Ah, get outta my way!
Sorry.
Pedestrian Ponies 3 & Watch it!
Hey— Oh, dear. Butter my biscuits. I can barely cross the street in this town. How am I supposed to help solve a—
[gasps] There!
"Pearmain Worcester": Yes, I think this is the one.
No! No.
"Pearmain Worcester": Excuse me?
That hat clashes with your mane, not to mention it's far too large and will undoubtedly obstruct your vision. Oh, dear, none of these will do. Oh, Applejack! What good timing!
[humming] Here. This will do splendidly.
"Pearmain Worcester": Oh, it's lovely! How much would you like for it?
Oh, no-no, please, please, keep it. I can always make another.
"Pearmain Worcester": Thank you!
[to Applejack] And you thought we wouldn't discover our purpose here! Pff. Kch. Ts!
Yeah, I'm pretty sure that wasn't it.
What? We just saved that poor pony from committing a terrible crime of fashion.
Well, she could've been meeting a friend who would've laughed at her new hat, and then their friendship could've been ruined forever! And... mmm... it's possible.
Did your cutie mark glow signifyin' a job well done?
Ye— No. I suppose it didn't. Still, a disaster was averted!
Averted? You just lost me a paying customer!
Oh, my! Oh, I-I-I-I-I'm s-so sorry. I never meant to—
Beat it!
Uh, please accept my sincerest apologies for the misunderstanding, and might I add, what a lovely establishment you have here! [nervous laugh] [clears throat] You're right, Applejack. [sighs] The search continues.
Uh, 'scuse me, I was just wonderin'... Uh, friendship problem, anypony? See, we've been sent here to... A-A map summoned us and, uh... If you could just take a moment to...
Friendship advice! Anypony looking for friendship advice! Good grief. This isn't working.
[sighs] I'm not sure what we're supposed to do. To be honest, I'm still not even sure what the map called me here for.
Oh, try not to worry, Applejack. The map picked us for a reason. Although how we're supposed to uncover that reason, I haven't a clue. We can't possibly approach every single pony in town until we find out what we're meant to d—ooh! [reading] "Please help us restore our long-lost but beloved tradition, the Midsummer Theater Revival. There's a guest performance by a local theater troupe, the Method Mares, as well as games, food, and much, much more. This event promises to bring our Bronclyn neighbors together and restore our sense of community, but there's so much to do and we need your help." Huh. [gasps] Darling, this is it! The contact on the flyer is Coco Pommel!
Oh, right! She's the one you got a job makin' costumes for that designer friend o' yours.
Don't you see?! This must be why the map called us here! Oh, and you were so worried!
Well, I suppose it's at least worth lookin' into... that is, if we can ever get off this street corner.
I can't believe you found my flyer. Quite a coincidence, don't you think?
An outdoor play held at the community park. Many moons ago, local theater troupes would perform, and ponies in the neighborhood would help make the costumes and design set pieces, prepare food to share during the performance.
Y'all do look like you're enjoyin' each others' company. Kinda reminds me of Ponyville.
It sounds lovely, darling.
It was, up until several moons ago.
What happened?
That's Charity Kindheart. She was a well-known costume designer on Bridleway. She started the Midsummer Theater Revival as a way to share her passion for theater with the neighborhood. No matter how busy she was, she always made time for the Revival.
But when she moved away to be closer to her grandfillies, the neighborhood lost the special tradition she had started, and worse, the sense of community it fostered.
Hey, I'm trotting here!
Nopony else stepped up to take over for Charity?
I've been trying to. But I've just gotten a last-minute request to alter costumes for the cast of My Fair Filly, and I'm afraid I haven't made much progress. Oh... There's just so much to do to bring back the Midsummer Revival, and my flyers haven't attracted a single volunteer!
Say no more! You finish up your work, and by this time tomorrow, you'll be up to your mane in ponies who want to lend a hoof. Applejack and I will make sure of it!
You will?
You bet your boots we will!
Oh, I don't wear boots. I find they chafe my calves when I walk.
It's just an expression.
So you see, the Method Mares are only available on this one day, and we need all the help we can get with preparation.
"Fine Print": Yeah, not a good time right now. Heh. What am I saying? It's never a good time!
[clearing throat] Well? What do you think?
"Chock-full Carafe": I got my own problems. You think I've got hours to dedicate to somepony else's?
"Uptown Clover": Ah, yes, Charity's Midsummer Theater Revival. Such wonderful memories.
So you'll help us?
"Uptown Clover": Oh, [laughs], don't be ridiculous. I run a very important oat and hay import/export business. Why, I can't spare even a moment for such things!
This is a nightmare.
Oh, not at all, darling. It's quite lovely.
I think she was talkin' about the Midsummer Theater Revival.
I finished the alterations for My Fair Filly, but I've barely started the costumes for the Revival, and the Method Mares are coming to the park tomorrow for a costume fitting and rehearsal!
Well, I could help you with the costumes.
But what are we going to do about the rest? The park is in desperate need of repairs, and the sets still need to be built!
Well I know a thing or two about buildin' and fixin' things. It's kinda, well, my thing. Could be the reason the map called me here!
You see, dear? We went out looking for volunteers when all the help you need is right here.
Uh-huh.
The map wouldn't have chosen just Applejack and me if it was more than we could handle. Everything is going to be just fine!
Perhaps I spoke too soon...
Oh, dear, you're right. Are you sure you can manage this by yourself?
I know it looks bad, but I'm movin' as fast as I can.
Don't worry, we've still got plenty of time. Everything's going to be—
Um, excuse me? Is this where the Midsummer Theater Revival is supposed to be, perchance?
We're here for the dress rehearsal?
Oh, yes! We've just put the finishing touches on the costumes.
"Late Show": [to Stardom] At least those look professional.
We'll do a dry run of the play first, and then the fitting.
No, wait! I haven't gotten a chance to—
...reinforce the stage yet.
[sighs] I just wanted to live up to Charity's example, to bring my neighborhood together again. But the park is still a mess, we haven't even thought about what refreshments to serve during the performance, and even if we had, we don't have a stage for the Method Mares to perform on! It's hopeless... Just hopeless!
[hushed] I don't understand. The map summoned us here to solve a friendship problem. We've clearly found it, but why did it send the two of us? Why not Twilight? I'm sure she could have used her magic to transform this park in an instant!
I've been thinkin' the same thing. I mean, I can at least see why you're here – Coco's your friend, and you have an eye for costumes and all – but me? I was never gonna be able to finish a project this big.
[dramatically] We'll return to Ponyville as failures! Why must this be, Applejack? Why? Why?! Wh—
Now hold on there. I'm not suggestin' we pack up and go home.
[muffled] Then what are you suggesting— [ptoo] Then what are you suggesting?
I'm suggestin' we stop worryin' about what we can't do and start doing what we can. I think I've got a plan. It won't be anythin' big or fancy, but it'll be somethin'. And somethin's gotta be better than nothin', right?
I suppose so...
That's the spirit! Sorta...
Alright, y'all, it's ready!
Should we go ahead and start?
[as Charity Kindheart] Excuse me. I'm Charity Kindheart. I'm here about the open design position. I brought some samples of my work. I'm sorry I'm late. I had the hardest time finding my way here. [tearing up] I just moved here, and I keep getting mixed up by the street names! I had a map, but I dropped it in a puddle, which only made the street names harder to read!
I see.
"Cloudy Daze": What is that?
I dunno, sugar, looks like some kinda play.
"Cloudy Daze": Well, can we stay and watch it please? Please, can we, can we?
Oh, alright, I suppose we could stay for a minute.
"Late Show": Excuse me, but your next appointment is here.
Alright. Send him in. [to Raspberry Beret] I'm sorry, but based on these samples, I just don't think this is the place for you.
Don't get me wrong. These clothes are all exquisite and well-made, but more theatrical than avant-garde. Have you considered costume design? I have a contact on Bridleway! If you're interested, I can put you in touch with him. ...And scene.
"Stardom": Charity, dear, is that you?
Hello, Mrs. Pearblossom! I didn't see—oops!
"Stardom": Oh, let me help you, dear. Are these the costumes you've been working on?
Yes, I was supposed to be finished by now, but there's just so much to do, and I still have a few last-minute alterations to make before opening night! I'm sorry I couldn't get enough tickets for everypony in the neighborhood. I hope Mr. Pearblossom wasn't too disappointed. I know Trotter on the Roof is one of his favorites.
"Stardom": Oh, my dear filly, don't worry about that. We're so proud of you. We shall be with you in spirit!
Thank you! You've all made me feel so welcome here and have become like family to me! I just wish I could share this experience with you and the others!
"Rivet": Eh, what's goin' on?
It's the Midsummer Theater Revival. The Method Mares are performing!
"Rivet": [sighs] The Revival. Mhm, yeah. My pop used to bring me.
"Stardom": So nice of you to put on this play for the neighborhood.
I couldn't have done it without everypony's help! I know it's not Bridleway, but—
"Stardom": Oh, pish-tosh! It's perfect, dear!
Oh, you're such a dear, thank you! This is so nice. Haven't seen the neighborhood this friendly since Charity moved away!
Thank you, fillies and gentlecolts. Please give a warm welcome to the one who made this entire event possible – our neighbor Coco Pommel!
[clears throat] Thank you all so much for coming. The Midsummer Theater Revival was always something that meant so much to me, and it seems it means quite a lot to all of you as well. I really can't take all the credit, though. My dear friends Rarity and Applejack helped me ever so much.
Oh, darling, please, it was just a few costumes.
Aw, shucks, I just happen to be good with a hammer is all. To be honest, we had much bigger plans to start. When those fell through, we decided to simplify. This here was the result.
Oh, don't be so modest. Coco and I were lost.
You bet your boots we were!
"Viola": We just wanted to say how much we enjoyed the Midsummer Theater Revival and how much it inspired us!
Oh, yeah?
"Uptown Clover": I used to think that to help my community I had to do something big. Heh-heh. And let's face it – in this day and age, who has the time for such a commitment? But here, you did something as simple as building a stage and putting on a play and, heh, look at how it's brought everypony together.
"Viola": I saw Coco's flyers for volunteers but didn't think anything I'd have time to do would be that useful. Now I wish I'd offered to help, even if it was just pulling a few weeds or planting a few flowers.
Not sure if you noticed, but the park is far from bein' fixed up. I imagine if you look around, you'll find there's lots of little ways for you to get involved in changin' this place for the better.
"Viola": And I will!
"Uptown Clover": And I don't think we'll be alone!
Yee-hoo!
We did it!
[gasps] I understand now! It all makes perfect sense!
Huh?
I know why the map called you here.
You do?
If Twilight had used her magic to fix the park, it wouldn't have fixed the real problem, which is that these Manehattan ponies didn't think they had time to do something for their community! But by building that stage and making sure the play went on, you showed them that just by doing something small, you can make a big difference!
Well, I'll be!
Seems you have more in common with the Manehattan ponies than you thought!
Heh-heh. But all the same, I'd sure like to head back to Ponyville on the next train. I want to check in with Apple Bloom and find out how the Sisterhooves Social turned out.
Oh, absolutely, my dear. Just as soon as I stop that pony in the shop over there from purchasing that dreadfully hideous scarf! Stop! You're making a terrible mistake!
Oh, snickerdoodle! Where is the darned thing? [groans] I wish for once I'd remembered to label these boxes! Uh, Big Mac, be a dear and help me move those... Uh, maybe it's in that one on the bottom.
Oh, dagnabbit, it's not in there either!
[muffled laughing] [normal] You can't catch me!
[laughing] Woo-hoo!
Hey!
[more laughing] You trickster!
Sisterhooves Social is right around the corner. Thought it'd be nice to award the winner of the big race the ribbon from when we hosted the very first Social! If'n of course I could find the darn thing. Oh, would you looky here! My, how Apple Bloom used to love watching you make that thing fly. It's like she thought you was magic. Ah, right, enough reminiscin'. Gotta find that ribbon! If you would just help me— [straining] pull... this... box, then maybe I can... Uh, Big Mac?
[straining] Found her!
S-I-S-T-E-R-S! Which two sisters are the best? We are! Apple Bloom and Applejack forever! Yee-hoo!
We're gonna win every competition at the Sisterhooves Social! Those other fillies aren't gonna know what hit 'em!
Oh. Hey there, Big Mac! Did you want somethin'?
Eeyup.
Hold that thought. Applejack, you are the most awesome sister ever!
Aw, gee-whiz. [laughs]. Well I think it's sweet that you hold that opinion, but—
It's not opinion! It's objective fact! You saved Equestria like a gazillion times, you're smart, funny, strong... Why you're the best sister of all time! Probably the best Apple of all time! Right, Big Mac?
Eeyup.
And with you by my side, I am guaranteed to taste sweet, sweet Sisterhooves Social victory! Go, Apples, go, go, go, Apples go!
Uh, Apple Bloom? I think Big Mac's got somethin' he wants to show you.
Oh, hey. Is that the toy we used to play with when I was little?
Eeyup!
Neat. [to Applejack] Alright then! Let's get back to practicin'! One more run-through of our jugglin' routine, make sure our harmonies are tight in our song, and see if we can't beat our best pie-eatin' time!
Hold on, sugarcube. I need a minute to talk with Big Mac.
Mind if I go ahead and start eatin' this pie?!
Hey, Big Mac, you all right?
[sighs] Yup.
You sure? You seemed a little down back there.
[scoffs] Nope.
Come on, you can tell me. You feelin' a little left out? Apple Bloom and I have been spendin' a lot of time together gettin' ready for the Social.
[gasps] What in the...?
Your cutie mark! You're being summoned, Applejack! This is so cool!
[sighs] Eeyup.
Now calm down. Let me just go over to Twilight's castle and see what's what! Maybe it's just a false alarm.
But you said it was a false alarm!
I said maybe it's a false alarm. Well, it's not. Rarity and I have to go to Manehattan.
Can't you just tell that map it'll have to wait a couple days?
No can do, sugarcube. When duty calls, I gotta answer right away. What kind of an example would I be settin' for my little sister if I didn't?
This can't be happening! Your extreme awesomeness is backfiring on me!
[sighs] I'm sorry, Apple Bloom. [to Big Mac] Try and cheer her up, won't you?
Eeyup.
Breakfast, come and get it!
Oh, it's no use, Big Mac. If I know my Apple Bloom, she won't come out of a funk this funky 'til her big sister gets back.
Hey, Apple Bloom, the Social's gonna start in a few hours. Thought you might want to go with us.
Since Rarity and Applejack are out of town, you and Sweetie Belle can cheer on me and Rainbow Dash instead!
Pretty great they're letting you participate even though you're not technically sisters.
Well, the Social's always had a pretty loose definition of what consti-ma-tutes a sister. As long as you share a bond that represents the spirit of the Social, you're in!
So what do you say?
You coming?
Why not...? Got nothin' better to do... Lemme wash up and I'll meet you in a little bit.
[sighs] Such a shame we don't live closer to all your second cousins. You could maybe do the Social with one of them instead. What is it, Big Mac? Y'all got an idea?
Eeyup!
What? What is it?!
Today is our big day!
We have so got this. I'm gonna go sign us in.
I guess I'm just a little jealous you two get to compete and I don't. But at least I get to be here and cheer you on! I thought Apple Bloom was gonna be here too.
Guess she changed her mind. Hey, there you are! You ready to cheer on me and Rainbow Dash to victory?
Uh, not exactly. Seems I'm gonna get to participate after all.
[gasps] Applejack is back from Manehattan already? That must mean Rarity is back too!
Your cousin who what now?
Oh, my! I'm so delighted to meet your little friends, Apple Bloom. Would these be your dear and beloved Cutie Mark Crusaders?
[sighs] Sweetie Belle and Scootaloo, cousin Orchard Blossom.
It is my extra-ordinary pleasure to make your acquaintance.
[deadpan] That's Big Mac in a dress.
Big Mac? Why, as charmed as I am that you find me in the slightest resemblance to such a-a-a fine and noble product of the Apple clan. I am astonished in equal measure. However, I shall take this startling observation under advisement given that it's from such an astute and perceptive filly as yourself, Sweetie Belle.
That's awful nice of you to say, cousin Orchard Blossom! I've been told before I'm pretty observant.
I haven't the slightest doubt.
Pardon me. My dearest cousin Applejack is regrettably unable to be here as planned, so I, her cousin Orchard Blossom, will accompany Apple Bloom in her stead. I trust that's acceptable to all concerned?
Cousin Orchard Blossom, huh? I know Applejack has a lot of relatives, but I feel like she would've mentioned you.
Why, you must be Rainbow Dash. You're Scootaloo's... say... how are y'all related again?
Hm. Why don't I just let you finish signing in? [hushed] But don't think me and Scootaloo are gonna take it easy on you just 'cause you're a stallion!
[laughs] Now, where were we?
[tuts] You mean 'powder your muzzle', don't you, dear? Such a more, uh, feminine-like reference to nature's call, don't you agree?
Have they called your brother's bluff yet?
No, but they're about to! I can't bear to watch!
Yoo-hoo! Apple Bloom! They've approved us as a pair! [giggles] Hurry along now, precious!
I can't believe they bought it!
It's sweet he wants to help you out like this. Weird, but sweet.
Bravo, bravo! Weren't those two sisters great? Now, where are our next competitors?
Here we are! This one, please.
Excellent choice... ma'am.
[hushed] You sure you know all the words? 'Cause it took Applejack a pretty long time to get it down.
[hushed] Did it now?
nan
We all love our brothers And our fathers and mothers We honor them like every family should
But there's somethin' that's quite unique When my sister's there with me And we share that special bond of sisterhood
Sisterhood
Sisterhood
Is a special kind of friend Sisterhood
Sisterhood
Is a bond that never ends
It's not always perfect You might fight or be misunderstood But together you'll always have sisterhood
Sisterhood
Sisterhood
Sisterhood
Sisterhood
Sisterhood
Sisterhood
[deep bass] Sisterhood!
[joining in] ...ood
Just a frog in my throat, dear. Probably just need to get a sip of water. If you'll excuse us, we've another event in which to participate. Oh, my, that certainly didn't go as I had planned. But don't you worry. We'll get you a blue ribbon yet, Apple Bloom.
You sure about that?
As sure as my name is cousin Orchard Blossom.
[to herself] But that isn't your name!
C-O-U-S-I-N-S! Which two sis— uh, cousins are the best? We are! Apple Bloom and Appleja— I mean, Orchardjack— Blossom forever!
Whee!
Whoaaa!
[spits] Yay.
Oh, I don't know why I didn't choose to wear something more casual. Why, I knew that juggling routine like the back of my hoof! But never you mind. There is still the race to be run!
I really appreciate all the effort, Big Ma— cousin Orchard Blossom, but maybe we just skip the whole obstacle course thing and call it a day.
Why, Apple Bloom! I wouldn't hear of it! Your cousin Orchard Blossom may be many things, but she is not a quitter.
I'm sure she's not, but it's like Applejack said! There'll be more Sisterhooves Socials down the line, and I'm sure she'll help me get a blue ribbon next time around.
B-But you wanted to win it this Sisterhooves Social! And no matter what, I am gonna get you that win! Why, I simply have to.
Alright, Scootaloo, remember the parts where teamwork really comes into play!
How could I forget? We've been training all week!
Okay, hot stuff! What's our move on the grape squish?
The alley-oop.
Apple toss?
Flip-flop.
Egg carrying?
Flutter-bomb.
Yeah!
Oh, dear.
[through megaphone] Competi-sis-tors! Take your positions!
[through megaphone] And a-ready, and a-set, go!
Nice jump, Scoot!
Woo-hoo!
Yikes! You almost squished me!
Pick up those hooves, Apple Bloom! Why, you're barely movin' at a mosey!
Come on, junebug, it's... like you've never carried an egg before!
Argh! I'm goin' as fast as I can!
Woo-hoo!
[coughs] I mean, [clears throat] victory is ours, sweet Apple Bloom!
Uh-oh.
"Uh-oh" indeed!
I should've known you'd eventually get busted for bein' a stallion!
Oh, no, we've known all along. The Sisterhooves Social has always had a loose policy when it comes to what counts as a "sister". But we do have a strict policy when it comes to sportsponyship! In your "sister's" desperation to win, he used brute strength to physically take out the competitors. Uh, that kind of behavior is not just unbecoming of a lady, but quite frankly, of anypony! And for that, you two are hereby disqualified!
Hah! Looks like we win, squirt!
Woo-hoo! Yeah!
I told you I should've just waited until the next Social to win with Applejack.
You know I'm... not mad, right?
Eeyup.
I mean... let's face it – you dressin' up as my cousin Orchard Blossom was a pretty crazy idea in the first place.
Eeyup.
And it's not like you got me disqualified from the Social forever or anythin'. I can participate next time with Applejack. Everything's fine.
Eeyup.
I just don't understand why you went so crazy there at the end of the race. I mean, I know you like to win an' all, but... you wanna tell me what's goin' on?
Nope.
Alright. Well, it's getting late. You comin'?
Nope.
Okay. See you later, I guess...
Apple Bloom?
Yeah?
When you were little, you used to look up to me, thought I was the best thing since zap apple jam. Things are different now. Applejack's the hero of the Apple family, always rushin' off to save Equestria. And I'm just here on the farm, doin' chores, helpin' out the way I can, nothin' special, nobody's hero. I guess I just thought... oh, never mind. Here I am about to start blabberin' on about my feelin's. You don't wanna hear all this.
Yes, I do!
I guess I just thought if I could... fill in for Applejack at the Social and get you a blue ribbon, well, I could be somepony you looked up to again. Be your hero again. Even if it was for just a day. It was foolish and I'm ashamed. Please, I just wanna be alone right now.
Yeah, well, too bad, you big goof! 'Cause I'm not goin' anywhere. And I know that you're always gonna be here when I need you. Heck, you'll do a whole obstacle course in high heels if you think it'll help me get somethin' I want. You're my big brother. You've always been a hero to me, Big Mac, and you always will be. I'm real sorry I haven't been lettin' you know that's how I feel. Guess both of us have been holdin' back when it comes to expressin' ourselves, huh?
Eeyup.
Big Mac! Apple Bloom! Your sister's home! She says she's got quite a story to tell about her trip to Manehattan!
Be there in a bit! I'm spending some quality time with my big brother! [to Big Mac] Hey, Big Mac?
Eeyup?
How do you think cousin Orchard Blossom would describe this sunset?
[chuckles] Why, dear, I do declare this is the most beautiful sunset my eyes have ever looked upon. Though sitting here on these tree roots is a trifle uncomfortable for my hindquarters.
Okay, Crusaders! Back to the business of earnin' our cutie marks! Any suggestions?
No, we've tried everything!
We've run out of ideas.
Are you kiddin' me, Crusaders? We can do better than that!
nan
We've been searchin' for our cutie marks For a while now Tryin' to find out how we fit in
So many ways we've tried before But we keep on tryin' more
'Cause the Cutie Mark Crusaders don't give in
We'll make our mark One way or another We'll make our mark On the day that we discover The ultimate reward of our cutie marks!
Now, that's more like it!
Cutie Mark Crusaders! Help!
What's wrong, Pipsqueak?
I'm running for student pony president, I was hoping you three would be my campaign managers!
We've never tried gettin' our cutie marks in campaign managin'! What do ya say, Crusaders?
Yeah! Hoof!
[loudly] So, Pip, how would you help the school if you were elected student pony president?
Our playground equipment took quite a beating during Twilight's battle with Tirek!
If I'm voted in as student pony president, I'll go to the school board and right this wrong!
Well, I think that's a ridiculous waste of money! It's just like when Twist proposed to repair the window that Discord destroyed! She just wanted to repair it like a plain old schoolhouse window. But you all know voting for me was the best choice because I convinced the school board to give that window visual appeal!
'Course, it doesn't hurt that her mother Spoiled Rich is president of the school board.
Exactly! Which is why when Diamond Tiara is voted student pony president, the school will be putting a statue of her in the center of our schoolyard!
[through gritted teeth] Silver Spoon! That was my big announcement for when I won!
I was only trying to help.
[through gritted teeth] I don't need that kind of help!
Haven't we all had enough of Diamond Tiara?
Do we really need a big statue of her?
Especially where our playground equipment should be?
A vote for Pip is a vote for the playground!
A vote for Diamond Tiara is a vote for more Diamond Tiara!
nan
It's time to make a change This is our chance Don't be afraid to do what's right He's it! Vote for Pip!
We got an opportunity To have fun again A vote for Pip, and you can join the fight
It's time for a new leader It's time to make a change We're here to fight for what we believe (Vote for Pip!) It's finally time we beat her And play a better game 'Cause when we vote together There's nothing that we can't achieve
I don't believe what I am hearing I'm the only one you should be cheering Pipsqueak? Try "Pip's weak!" Don't you think?
But a diamond is perfection It's natural selection So your vote better be for me, not the weakest link
We'll let the votin' decide!
Everypony has their little secrets
I know you do A vote for me will help you keep them safe
Like your creepy super strength!
Or your mane extension A little thing I won't mention Or those freakish large teeth in your face!
Come on now, ponies! Don't listen to her!
You've gotta vote for change It's time for a new leader End all the tyranny Vote now and we can beat her
It's now another day And we believe in what's right
Vote for Pip! Vote for Pip!
Our victory is in sight
Stop! Everypony who hasn't voted, listen up!
Pip makes promises he can't keep But I can do more
You could really use a new bookbag
'Cause I'll make things happen That none of you here can afford
To do, like, ever!
Wouldn't you like a little something sweet? Here's a parasol to hide you from the heat Who says that I can't be nice?
But first there's one thing An itsy-bitsy little string And voting for me is the price!
I've a tiny suggestion That you should be aware You could probably win this election If you show them all you real—
I don't recall asking you to speak!
Well, if that's how you treat your best friend, then I choose Pipsqueak!
Vote!
He's it! Vote for Pip! Vote!
Vote for Pip!
It's time for a new leader It's time to make a change We're here to fight for what we believe
Vote for Pip!
It's finally time we beat her And play a better game 'Cause when we vote together There's nothing that we can't achieve
Vote for Pip!
The votes have been counted! The student pony president is... Pipsqueak!
Huh?!
Oh, my gosh, Crusaders! Pip won!
I couldn't have won without the hard work of my campaign managers, the Cutie Mark Crusaders!
Campaign manager cutie marks!
Guess you're not as good as you thought, blank flanks! In fact, I demand a recount!
Trust me, Diamond Tiara. Pip won.
I'll be the judge of that, Miss Cheerilee!
What?! One vote! Silver Spoon! You didn't vote for me?!
No, I didn't.
But you're my best friend!
Am I? 'Cause I tried to help by mentioning your 'surprise' statue, and suddenly I wasn't even allowed to speak! You could have actually won this election if you just listened to me. You wanna know how? [whispering] Sorry. I'm not allowed to speak.
[to Cutie Mark Crusaders and Pipsqueak] What? I don't have to follow her drum any more.
I know Diamond Tiara's been pretty awful, but... we should probably make sure she's okay. Just 'cause she's never cared about anypony else's feelings doesn't mean we shouldn't care about hers.
Diamond Tiara! Why are you making that face? That is not the face of a winner.
Because... I didn't win.
What?! You mean I hefted all these party supplies to celebrate nothing?!
Sorry mother.
It's bad enough you lost to that transplant from Trottingham, but imagine if you'd lost to one of those blank flanks. As a Rich pony, you must always think of your social standing.
Hm.
That starts here in Ponyville and reaches all over Equestria. Don't ever forget that, Diamond Tiara. Ever!
If I'm a diamond Then why do I feel so rough? I'm as strong as a stone Even that's not enough
There's something jagged in me And I've made such mistakes I thought that diamonds were hard Though I feel I could break
Would you believe That I've always wished I could be somepony else? Yet I can't see What I need to do to be the pony I want to be
I've been told my whole life What to do, what to say Nopony showed me that There might be some better way
And now I feel like I'm lost I don't know what to do The ground is sinking away I'm about to fall through
Would you believe That I've always wished I could be somepony else? Yet I can't see What I need to do to be the pony I want to be
To be the pony I want to be
Is it weird that I feel bad for her?
If it is, then... I'm weird, too.
She wants to change, but she doesn't know how.
Seems like she could use a friend or two to help her figure it out.
Hey, Diamond Tiara! Wait up!
What do you three want? To gloat? Rub in my defeat?
Actually, we wanted to invite you to our clubhouse to hang out.
Really?
Yeah, for real!
Well, thanks to you all, I don't have any important class president business to attend to or anything. So I might as well.
That sounds like a yes...
So, do you three just sit around here plotting out different ways to try and get your cutie marks?
Actually, yeah.
You three are... really lucky.
We are?!
Yeah! You get to explore all these options, learning who you really are before you're stuck with something you don't understand.
But... you've done that, right?
Yeah, 'cause I have my cutie mark! And I'm not struggling at all to figure out who I'm supposed to be and what I'm supposed to be doing with this mark that's already on my flank!
Uh... are you sure about that?
[scoffs] That's a weird question.
Not really, since we kind of overheard you yesterday.
Were you trying to get your cutie mark in spying? Is that on your little chart?
No! We were just worried about you when you lost the election, and then you lost your friend, and then your mom yelled at you...
We know you wanna change, and we think we can—
[muffled] Help!
Cutie Mark Crusaders! I was at the school board meeting and they didn't approve my request for the new playground equipment!
Why not?
There's no money in the budget! So I checked my Peggy bank to see if I had enough bits, but my little Peggy wasn't nearly full enough!
Don't worry, Pip!
We'll meet you back at school.
And help you find a solution!
Thanks, Cutie Mark Crusaders!
Oh, I already have a solution! Our new student pony president is gonna be kicked out of office, and I'll be reinstated!
Where's she going?
Where do you think?! C'mon! After her!
Wait! I'm coming too!
nan
Cutie Mark Crusaders, get out of my way Those ponies need to know the truth And they'll hear it from me
Stop! Diamond Tiara, this is not the way You know you're better than this hostility
You don't even know me at all Don't understand the meaning of my fall What my family would think if I ever Fail at anything
I'm a diamond – that means you'll never break No matter what be the cost of the path I take Whatever I have to do to win in the end
Stop! This is not the answer Wait! And it's plainly seen Listen! You can redeem yourself But by helping others, not by being mean
We know you want friends who admire you You want to be the star with all the power too But there's a better way, there's a better wa-a-ay
There's so much more still left to Learn about yourself See the light that shines in you We know you can be somepony else
You can stop right now And try another start You'll finally free yourself from the dark And see the light And see the light of your cutie mark
Everypony, I have an announcement!
Diamond Tiara! Think hard about the choice you're makin' right now!
You can be a better pony!
Diamond Tiara! I just happened to be here for the school board meeting, and this is what I see when we adjourn? My daughter associating with confused, insignificant lowlifes? Socializing with their kind is not how you move up in Equestria! Come, Diamond Tiara!
No, mother!
Excuse me?!
You've spent your life acting like a high horse and raised me to follow in your hoofprints! At first I thought this was fine, but then I finally realized I wanted something you don't have – friends!
That's enough, Diamond Tiara! Step away from those blank flanks!
These are the Cutie Mark Crusaders, and they are my friends! You need to stop calling them such mean and hurtful names! They are working harder to get their cutie marks than anypony I've ever seen! And they will get them exactly when they discover their true talent, which I guarantee will be amazing! Now, will you please deliver this to father?
Yes, of course, dear...
I have to thank you, Crusaders. Obviously I've known since I got my cutie mark that my talent is getting other ponies to do what I want. I just asked my father if he could donate the money for the new playground equipment!
[to Pipsqueak] I knew you were worried for a second there, weren't you? Ha! Well, I think it's all gonna work out just fine, Mister President!
nan
We'll build a playground For all of us to enjoy So full of games There's enough for each girl and boy
I want to help and do Everything that I can I'm here to show you I changed Listen up, here's the plan
Bring it in! That's right, keep it coming! Hey there, you with the amazing strength. Can you help them move that merry-go-round across the lawn? Thank you so much! And you with the super teeth, we need you to help with that teeter-totter. You got it! That's the spirit!
There's so much I can do To help everypony else I see the light that shines in me I know I can be my better self
I can free the past 'Cause now the future's bright for me My cutie mark has set me free To do what's right and be the pony I want to be
And be the pony I want to be!
I've been thinkin', Crusaders. We spend an awful lot of time fussin' and frettin' tryin' to discover our true talent. But when we take a little time off, we end up helpin' other ponies figure out their true talent!
Yeah, and I think that's way more important than worrying about our cutie marks, don't you?
Absolutely! I don't care if I ever get my cutie mark as long as I get to hang out with my best friends.
So what do you say, Crusaders? Want to just focus on helpin' others find their cutie marks?
Yeah!
What happened?
What's goin' on?
It's your cutie marks! They're amazing!
We all got the same cutie mark! Cutie Mark Crusaders forever!
nan
We were searching for our cutie marks For a while there Trying to find out how we fit in
So many ways we've tried before But we kept on trying more 'Cause the Cutie Mark Crusaders don't give in
Now we know what it took all along
And our journey here is never really done
For it is more than just a mark It's a place for us to start
An adventure that has only just begun
We'll make our mark Show the world what we can do We'll make our mark Helping fillies to break through To the ultimate reward of a cutie mark
All right, everypony! Get ready for the biggest cute-ceañera celebration ever!
Oh, sugarcube, if Mom and Dad were here, they'd be so proud of ya.
Oh... Thanks, Applejack.
Now go on and party with your pals.
I'm so proud of you, little buddy You've taught me a thing or two
You've inspired everypony around you And you've inspired me too
[Rainbow Dash, Rarity, and Applejack] You've made your mark Done Equestria so proud You've made your mark And we're here to sing it loud For the ultimate reward of your cutie mark
Well, what do you think, Crusaders? Were these cutie marks totally worth waiting for or what?
Yeah! I can't wait to see who we're gonna help next!
We started out just three Crusaders driven to see What we find in our hearts Discover our destiny
And here we are, best friends About to start it again An adventure that never will end
We'll make our mark Helping fillies most in need We'll make our mark So each one of them succeeds 'Cause the ultimate reward is a cutie mark!
Five hundred and sixty-six, five hundred and sixty-seven, five hundred and sixty-eight... Phew! Look at that, Pound Cake! I am so close to breaking my personal cupcake-icing record!
Mrs. My goodness! I can't believe what I'm seeing here!
Pretty impressive if I do say so myself.
Mrs. Pinkie, would you mind watching the counter while I pop to the supply room? We've just received a very special order, and the ingredients need to be perfect.
Okie-dokie-lokie.
Mrs. Thanks, dear!
A baby?! Shining Armor and Princess Cadance are having a baby?! [squeals] This is the best news ever! I can't wait to tell Twilight!
Mrs. Oh, em, Pinkie, uh... [whispers] it's a top secret surprise.
A top secret surprise?! That means I have to keep the exciting news... [gulps] ...to myself!
Even though I didn't technically make a Pinkie Promise to Mrs. Cake, I can't tell Twilight or anypony the big news! That would make me a... a... a big old surprise ruiner! Right, Gummy?
Did you take that from Pound Cake again? Don't you know it's wrong to steal from a baby?
What's all this about a baby?
What? Who? What? Who said something about a baby?!
You did, Ms. Pie, just now. What were you talking about?
Great! Everypony's here. Now I don't have to wait any longer to tell you all the wonderful news! Somepony special is coming to visit Ponyville, and I need your help getting everything ready!
It's...
Shining Armor and Princess Cadance!
Yes, and they're coming—
Tomorrow!
Yes, on the—
Yes.
Annnnnd?
And that's it.
Oh.
Uh, how did you know all that?
[nervous laugh] Uh... Pinkie Sense?
So, you said you needed our help with something?
Follow me.
Sweet posters! Is that Smash Fortune?
It sure is! When Shining Armor said he wanted to come to the castle and visit, I started collecting things he liked when he was a colt as a surprise!
I've been so excited that it's been hard to keep it to myself!
[slightly muffled] I have no idea what that's like!
Aww, look at the cute little ant farm!
And check out all these old comic books!
Be careful! They're mint-in-bag!
What's this?
This is Brutus Force. Shining Armor used to carry him around like his baby!
It is a bit juvenile for castle décor, but it is very sweet of you.
I'm sure Shining Armor will love it.
Me, too. But there's a few more things I'd like to add before he gets here, and I could really use a hoof collecting them.
Whatever you need, sugarcube, we'll help you get it.
Thanks, everypony! I just can't wait 'til they walk in and see everything!
Totally understandable. Watching somepony else be surprised with something is almost better than being the one who's getting the surprise!
But... eh... what if the surprise is something so incredibly exciting that a pony can't keep it in any longer, and she has to tell the pony standing next to her what it is or she might explode?!
I would say... no.
The pony who ruins a surprise for somepony else has to live with that guilt forever!
[nervous laugh] Gotta bounce!
So, I know the bar is set pretty high, but does anypony else think Pinkie Pie was acting weirder than usual?
[heavy breathing] Phew, that was close! Too close. I almost spilled the beans. Beans that would be really hard to clean up! I obviously can't be around my friends right now. Or anypony for that matter! Hmmm... That's it! If Shining Armor and Cadance are coming tomorrow, then all I have to do is lock myself in my room away from everypony until they arrive! Then I won't ruin anything!
Mr. Oh, good, you're back! Mrs. Cake needs my help, but these deliveries can't wait! I can't thank you enough for agreeing to be my backup delivery pony, Pinkie!
I... did?
Mr. Maybe I should hire somepony to be my backup delivery pony.
I'll do it!
Mr. Really?
Sure! There's no possible way that I could ever have anything that might interfere with doing that task, like a gigantic, emotionally exhausting surprise that would make it super hard to be around other ponies.
Mr. Great! Uh, you're sure you won't change your mind?
No way! Cross my heart and hope to fly, stick a cupcake in my eye!
Oh, yeah. I Pinkie Promised I'd do it. And I never break a Pinkie Promise! Never!
Mr. Well, thanks again! You're a real cake-saver!
[deflates, sighs] Hm. Maybe it'll be a quiet day and I can just avoid everypony!
Hiya, Pinkie Pie!
Heard any good gossip today?
Yeah, we're bored. Please say you have some interesting news.
Nope!
You were in such a rush earlier. Twilight wanted me to ask you if you would bring some snacks to the castle for Shining Armor and Cadance's visit.
Definitely! Got it! Pinkie Promise! Yeah! Heh.
You know, maybe some baby carrots...
[nervous laugh] What did you say?!
Baby carrots! They're Shining Armor's favorite.
Mine too! Baby carrots are kinda like big carrots but smaller, kinda like how foals are tiny versions of their parents but smaller and cuter and— Albino squirrel!
Where? Is it Albert?
It's time to kick this operation into hyper-hoof and avoid all ponies by any means necessary!
It didn't feel good ignoring my friends like that... Maybe I can tell just one little pony the surprise?
[with reverb] The pony who ruins a surprise for somepony else has to live with that guilt forever!
You're right, spooky-reflection-of-Rarity-that-I-know-is-actually-my-own-imagination. I can't tell anypony at all! [sighs] Then they would tell Twilight, and she wouldn't be surprised, and it would be all my fault.
[sighs] Finally, I'm all aloney on my owney.
Wow, great idea! I'm starving too! [chewing] [with mouth full] This apple is delicious! [swallows] What are you having, Gummy? Oh, no! It's the list that Twilight helped me make yesterday so I wouldn't forget all of my Pinkie Promises today! And I have three more things to do! Aw, four if you count bringing those snacks to Twilight's castle! I've been getting liberal with those Pinkie Promises lately...
Ooh! I want a flamingo!
I want a goldfish!
Surprise me!
Is that a... baby bottle?
[screams] No! It's a... a... puppy! Ha ha, woof woof, ha ha! Eh...
Are you sure? Because it looks like a—
Next!
Uh, a baby pony, please! Uh, unless of course that would be a royal pain...
Interesting choice of words, Featherweight.
Was it?
I don't know. Was it?
Uh, maybe you'd better just make me a giraffe.
My, your friends weren't kidding when they said you had a great filing system, Pinkie! You are Ponyville's best kept secret!
No, I'm not!
[hushed] Speaking of secrets, have you ever known somepony else's secret?
Noooooo...
[hushed] A surprise that was so big and exciting that it was all you could think about?
Nope!
[strangled sigh] Me neither...
"Wooden Legs": [laughing] That's just what I wanted. Thanks, Pinkie!
You're welcome!
"Wooden Legs": Oh, by the way, can you help spread the word about the big crib sale I'm having?
[reading] "Treat your foal like... royalty"?!
"Wooden Legs": [laughing] Pretty good slogan, huh? I came up with it all by myself!
"Wooden Legs": Oh. I thought it was clever.
Those look yummy, Pinkie! Let me help you! But we better cover them up so they don't get spoiled.
Why would they get spoiled? We're all gonna eat them super soon!
Oh, didn't anypony tell you? Shining Armor and Cadance are held up. They may not arrive 'til Saturday.
Whaaaaaaaaaat?! [hyperventilating] You mean... [breathes] I have... [breathes] to wait... [breathes] another whole day?! I don't know if I can!
Pinkie Pie, do you have something you need to say? You seem like you've been keeping something in.
We're here to listen.
Well, go on then, sugarcube.
We're not going to judge you, darling.
You'll feel so much better once you get it off your chest!
Come on.
Whatever it is, you can tell us! We're best friends! [with reverb] Friends! Friends! Friends!
[with reverb] Tell!
[with reverb] Tell! Tell!
Friends! Friends! Friends! Tell! Tell! Tell!
Okay, okay, you win! [inhales] Shining Armor and Cadance are gonna have a—
An awesome weekend with the best little sister in all of Equestria!
[giggles] Hi, everypony.
Shining Armor, Cadance! You're early! I thought something had come up and you weren't gonna make it until Saturday!
So did we. Turned out we weren't needed in Maretonia until next week. And the summit we were supposed to attend today had to be rescheduled, so... we got here even sooner than planned!
Surprise!
It's wonderful to see you all again!
Well, the pleasure's all ours, Princess.
I'm so glad you're here! I have a big surprise for you!
Oh, yeah?
[hushed] Lucky we came when we did, huh? I'm guessing you saw the scroll we sent to Mr. and Mrs. Cake? Hey, I'm impressed you've been able to keep our secret this long!
So you're gonna tell Twilight now?!
[hushed] You're gonna have to wait just a little bit longer. We have something special planned. It'll be worth it, I promise.
It'd better be.
So, do you think Shining Armor liked his surprise?
Didn't you see him? He couldn't stop raving about it!
Where did Shining Armor and Cadance say they'd meet us? [stomach rumbling] I'm starving!
In the town square. I wish they'd waited to walk over with us, but they said they had something to take care of first!
[through gritted teeth] They're gonna have a lot more to take care of soon...
What?
Nothiiiiiiing!
That's odd. Usually they're quite punctual.
Ughhh! I need a hayburger in my belly right now!
What does it say?
A scavenger hunt! Shining Armor used to set these up for me when I was a filly! At the end, there was always a big prize, like a new book, or several new books, or—
We get the picture! You like books!
So what's the first clue?
I hope it's something about eating lunch!
[reading quickly] "You've got a scroll, you're on a roll, why don't you take a peek where young ones spend their week? A piece of paper will continue this caper."
I've got it! "Where the young ones spend their week."
I'm not quite followin'.
It's the Ponyville Schoolhouse!
"A piece of paper will continue this caper." [gasps] It's in the Foal Free Press!
Ooh, look at that dress Mayor Mare is wearing in the social report! Why, it's stunning!
Uh, didn't you make that, Rarity?
Yes, what is your point?
Focus, everypony!
You know, there's really no time limit on these scavenger hunts, Pinkie.
[reading] "Though this hall is rather small, in it you'll find files of all kinds. Take a look on the back of the birth certificate of Applejack."
I don't like where this is goin'.
Baby! A royal ba—!
A-hem?
Does anypony know where the birth certificates are kept?
Ooh! I do, I do! Go down that hall, then you take a left, then a right, then another right, then a slight left, and it's the third door from the right!
Wow, Pinkie. I never knew you knew so much about town hall.
There's a lot of things I know! That you don't know I know!
Oh, you're so cute.
[reading] "This next place is where you can buy a table or chair, or some comfy beds to rest little heads"?
Ugh, really? None of you? [groan] It's obviously the furniture store! Go in, go in, go in!
I don't know...
Daagh, fine!
Wow, you're scary good at this, Pinkie Pie.
[reading quickly] "It seems we've saved the best for last. We hope that you have had a blast. Now it's time to take a break where you can get a slice of cake!"
Sugarcube Corner!
[scoffs] That was an easy one.
Surprise! Twily, did you like the scavenger hunt?
It was perfect! Just like old times, except even better because this time I got to share it with my best friends! There's just one thing missing, isn't there?
What's that?
Mmmm, the book prize at the end!
[laughs] There's still a prize, but it's a little different this time.
Oh. I don't understand.
All the places we sent you today had something in common.
First we went to the schoolhouse...
And then we read the Foal Free Press... After that we found Applejack's birth certificate... And then the last clue was under a crib.
Hmmm... School... foal... birth certificate... and crib... [gasps] Can it be? Are you two...?!
We're having a baby!
A baby, Twilight! It's a baby! Woo-hoo!
You mean... I'm going to be an aunt?! This is the best prize ever!
Oh, I love you guys! And I can't wait to meet your little foal!
Neither can we.
I did it, I did it, I did it, I did it! [squee] [pop] Go, Pinkie.
[giggles] You did it, Pinkie Pie! You kept it a surprise! Thank you! Was it much trouble?
Happy Hearth's Warming Eve!
Shucks, Twilight! Y'all done it up nice and cozy in here.
We're about to hang our Hearth's Warming dolls if you wanna join us.
Oh, that's mighty sweet of you, but we're just stoppin' in to wish y'all a happy Hearth's Warmin' before we go.
I think it's sweet that your families are spending the holiday together.
Picture the most fun-tacular thing you can think of. Now multiply that times infinity! Whoo! It's gonna be great!
That's us. See you later!
Now can we open presents?
But tonight is Hearth's Warming Eve. Everypony knows you don't open presents 'til tomorrow.
When Spike and I spent our first Hearth's Warming Eve together, he couldn't wait all night to open his presents! Ever since then, we've always opened them the night before!
It's kinda like our tradition!
That's not how our family does it, and I reckon it can't be how Pinkie's does it. Is it?
No sirree!
To each their own, I suppose.
Agh! Gotta go, bye!
Just what I always wanted! A book...
Chancellor Puddinghead puddings! How 'bout a Windigo-frosted snow cone?
It's so excitin'! Related or not, it's gonna be a hoot havin' our families together under one roof!
Apples and Pies together again for the first time! Maybe. Unless we're related! Which maybe we're not. I think I just confused myself.
Friends or family, this here's about togetherness.
[mouth full] Have you tried the Equestria flag crepes? The blue is blueberry! And don't tell Granny I saw, but her trunk is full of presents!
Now hang on, sugarcube. You know Hearth's Warmin' isn't just about candy and presents, right?
Uh-oh. That's your boring sisterly lecture voice.
'Fraid so! [clears throat] A long time ago, the Earth ponies, Pegasus ponies, and unicorn ponies weren't friends.
[as unicorn pony] I don't like you! [as Pegasus pony] I don't like you either!
But then, the icy chill of the Windigos almost iced up everythin'. So the ponies decided to work together, and their friendship drove them nasty critters away.
[as Pegasus pony] Beat it, Windigos!
Triumphant, they raised a new flag to celebrate all three tribes, and Equestria was born.
Uh, what happened to the flag?
Is that why we celebrate with a flag raisin' tomorrow?
Mm-hmm! And tonight, we'll have the traditional Hearth's Warmin' Eve dinner to remember the shared bounties of our ancestors.
We do that too!
Then we'll hang our Hearth's Warmin' dolls over the fireplace to remind us of the warmth shared on that fateful night.
That's what our family does too!
And tomorrow, we open presents!
Ah! We do that too!
Sounds like the Apples and the Pies do everything the same way!
"Rooftastic"?
As in, I'm gonna stand on the roof and yell to everypony how rooftastic this is!
What if our families don't like each other?
[deadpan] I'm so excited to see you, Pinkie Pie. You too, Applejack. I hope you had fun sledding yesterday.
How'd you know that?
[deadpan] Isn't it obvious? There are specks of extrusive andesite on your hoof. It's a mountain rock.
[hushed] Oh, she's good.
How's school going?
[deadpan] If you thought quartz was high on the Mohs hardness scale, wait 'til I tell you about corundum.
I missed you so much!
Mm-hmm.
This place looks amazin'!
Come on, everypony! Meet my super-mega-fun-derful family! Everypony, meet everypony!
Surely thy name is not but Granny Smith. I am called Igneous Rock Pie, son of Feldspar Granite Pie.
Thou shalt know me as Cloudy Quartz.
May Providence favor thee well, and to thou comfort our humble homestead bring.
Y'all gabbin' with words real funny-like. Wh-wh-what'd you say them names were? "Iggy"? And I'm just gonna call you "Big Mama Q"!
Gaze into the eyes of Limestone Pie. Ma and Pa may own this rock farm, but I keep it running. Cross me and—
Aye aye, Captain Grumpy! No one's gonna mess with your precious mine!
Or Holder's Boulder!
[sighs] Everypony stay away from Holder's Boulder. There, you happy now?
And you must be—
This is Marble Pie, my baby sister who's only a few minutes younger than me but she'll always be a baby to me, isn't that right? She's so excited to meet everypony! Oh, and she wishes you all a happy Hearth's Warming!
Mm-hmm.
[hushed, to Apple Bloom] Guess Pinkie Pie always did the talkin' for her.
[whistles] Attention!
What'd I say about the boulder?!
I'll just be a second. Everypony get settled in! There's plenty of room upstairs. And then it's time for Hearth's Warming Eve dinner!
[hushed] So far, so good, cousin!
Hee-hee!
Oh, I can't wait to taste their fresh sweet rolls! They're my favorite part of Hearth's Warmin' Eve dinner.
I'm more of a six-layer bean dip filly myself!
I love that too! Oh, Applejack, do you think theirs'll be even better than ours?
Well, that's a mighty tall order, but it wouldn't surprise me in the least.
Are you excited for dinner time? Because guess who is! Spoiler alert – it's me!
What about hot rolls and mulled cider and double-baked pot pie?
Uh, what about six-layer bean dip?
[deadpan] We have rock soup.
Potato, po-tah-to. Double-baked pot pie, rock soup! Dinner is dinner. Am I right or am I right?
Yeah, um, you know what? This is what we were expectin'! Right, everypony?
[slurping, exhales] Is everything all right, Applejack?
More rock, please!
Eat up, so we can get to our Hearth's Warming dolls!
Now that's somethin' I know all about!
Who wants a Hearth's Warming doll?
Are you sayin' that rock is a Hearth's Warmin' doll?
Don't be silly, silly!
Our dolls are these little pieces! Isn't that right, Marble Pie?
Mm-hmm.
Our dolls are... rocks?
Uh... y'all don't have traditional crocheted dolls passed down in your family?
Aww, you're just a frown factory because you got a weird rock. Cheer up! I'm sure you'll do great in the flag finding mission!
The what findin' what now?
Limestone Pie, you're the judge! Big Mac, Marble Pie, you're team one! Apple Bloom and Maud, you're team two! Ma, Pa, you're gonna be with Granny Smith. Don't think of it as team old. Think of it as team three! And I'm with Applejack of course, since we might be cousins!
So now that we're all split up, mind tellin' us what we're doin'?
As everypony knows—
Stay off Holder's Boulder!
Sheesh. When the three tribes united to form Equestria, the first flag was sewn by Nimble Thimble. It's tradition to raise a flag on Hearth's Warming to celebrate that famous day.
But who gets to put the flag on Holder's Boulder?
You mean on the flagpole?
No, silly, it goes on the highest point! And who's the lucky pony?
Traditionally, it's the youngest—
[quickly] On your marks, get set, go!
Pinkie Pie, will you please tell us what's goin' on?
I'll explain on the way!
I still don't understand.
Earlier today, Limestone Pie hid an obsidian stone. Whoever finds it gets to raise the flag!
It's all just so... complicated, and... rock-based.
Well, how else would we do it?
I don't know. I sure hope everypony else is havin' a better time.
Mm-hmm.
Eeyup.
Mm-hmm.
Eeeeeeeeeyup.
So, how'd you meet this Iggy feller?
We were chosen by the Pairing Stone and betrothed within a fortnight.
The choosing stone decreed, "Thou shalt love one another." And lo, it was so.
Hoo-wee, I gots to look into this oldfangled choosin' stone thing. You reckon it knows any apple-farmin' hunks?
Indeed so.
[simultaneously] Mmm.
What does the rock look like?
[deadpan] It looks like something that formed when volcanic lava cooled quickly.
Oh.
[deadpan] Have you ever wished you could turn into a rock?
I had a dream once I was an apple.
[deadpan] We have a lot in common when it comes to thinking about turning into things.
Found it, found it, found it!
A picture? I've been lookin' for a real stone, Pinkie Pie!
Um, that would be weird. Do you know what this means? I get to raise the flag, and now it's time to hide the presents!
Y'all hide your presents?
Of course! What's more fun than getting a present? Finding a present! Although, most years, nopony finds one.
So nopony gets presents?
Eh, not usually.
So lemme get all this straight. You're only allowed to eat rock soup for dinner, then the pony who finds this rock gets to raise the flag, but not really 'cause you don't got no flagpole, and to top it off, you don't even get presents?!
Well, it doesn't sound very fun when you say it that way.
Well, how 'bout you picture this? Both our families, openin' presents, raisin' the flag...?
Picturing it... Loving it...!
Goodnight, everypony!
Goodnight, Pinkie Pie! [hushed] We've gotta do somethin', y'all! Pinkie Pie's family never had a real Hearth's Warmin'!
Is that really what she said?
Well, I-I'm sure it's what she meant.
These are their traditions.
Eeyup.
[sighs] I know they have their traditions and we have ours, but I just want them to see how much better theirs could be.
Hearth's Warming!
Oh, my. Oh, my.
What. Happened. To. My. Farm!
It's Hearth's Warmin', Apple-style! We've been doin' everythin' your way, I thought we could mix it up a bit! Marble Pie, you could raise the Equestria flag up this pole, because you're the youngest Pie! Ma and Pa Pie, we'll cook you up a meal you'll never forget! And look, we all get presents without havin' to find 'em!
...Yeah, this is gonna be great! All the stuff she's said. Right, everypony?
Pinkamena Diane Pie! Truly thou cannot favor this madness!
Well, I wanna be one big family!
But what about what we usually do?!
I, um, well, I-I don't know! [tearing up] Don't make me choose!
I didn't mean to cause a fuss... Why don't we just open presents around the flag pole? It'll be fun, you'll see!
Excuse me. You planted your pole on a fault line.
Nooooooooooooooo!
Oh, boy.
You didn't have to ask them to leave!
They wanted to go! We don't need anypony forcing their way into our family!
This was all a misunderstanding, everypony! I know Applejack, and she'd never do anything bad to anypony!
Look around, Pinkie Pie! It's gonna take me ages to get this rock farm back on track! And how are we gonna lift Holder's Boulder?! This is all her fault!
Then it's my fault too...
Prob'ly best if we head back to Sweet Apple Acres. Maybe in time we'll be friends again, but for the now it's best if we give them a little space.
I wish we didn't have to. I really like Maud. She's sweet once you get to know her. They all are. Worst Hearth's Warmin' ever.
Eh, has anypony seen Applejack?
[sniffling] I really cracked the corn this time.
[sniffling] I really popped the piñata this time.
Pinkie Pie?
[yelps] What are you doing here?
What are you doin' here?
[simultaneously] I came here to think! You did? So did I! [laughing] Aww.
I'm too ashamed to go back up there. Your family, my family, they all must think I'm such a nincompoop.
Aw, no one thinks that! Pushy, aggressive, mean... Oh, I'm not helping. Sorry.
I'm sorry I forced my traditions over yours. I don't want you to have to choose between the family you were born into and the friends who love you like one. I really hoped we could be one big happy family. I guess not.
Don't say that!
I wish I could stay, but I have a train to catch.
[crying] H-Ha... Happy Hearth's Warming.
[tearing up] You too.
You want to know why Holder's Boulder's so danged important? [exhales] Well, now their great-great-great-great-great-great-grandfather Holder Cobblestone – he found that boulder in a dragon's nest, older than time itself! He built the family farm around it, even though it was just an ordinary rock. It always brought them good luck.
Aw, crickets! That is important! I got so caught up in the things they were doin', I never asked why they did 'em!
[reading] To Applejack, from Pinkie Pie. Cousins forever.
You just found your first Pie Hearth's Warmin' present ever!
[laughing] Only Pinkie Pie could hide a present on a movin' train. ...What a great tradition. [beat] Stop the train!
[straining] Come on... you... boulder, come on... agh!
[deadpan] I'm pushing as hard as I can too.
Rrrgh, it's hopeless!
Need a little help?
[gasps] Apples!
What do you want?!
I wasn't tryin' to take your traditions away, I was tryin' to share ours. I was so focused on us bein' one big happy family, I thought we needed the same traditions right away. What I should've done was learn about yours and teach you about ours. And over time, we'd make new traditions together. I'm sorry, y'all.
Well, don't just stand there! We got a boulder to move! And I'm in charge.
I think we've just invented our first combined tradition! Pushing Holder's Boulder out of the quarry! [squeals] I can't wait for Applejack to knock it over next Hearth's Warming!
Marble Pie, you want to wish Big Mac a happy Hearth's Warming, don't you! And you too, right, Big Mac?
Mm-hmm!
[short giggle] Eeyup.
Eh, lemme see here, uh... 'If thou ask-eth me, uh, thou two art, eh, okay-eth in my book'.
'Yee-haw'.
Happy Hearth's Warming!
Happy Hearth's Warmin', Pinkie Pie.
Attention, everypony! Maud wants to sing some Hearth's Warmin' carols that she wrote!
[deadpan] The first one is about rocks. They're all about rocks. [reading, deadpan] Hearth's Warming is great. Like calcium silicate. What a wonderful day. As good as mica or clay.
Fuzzy Legs, do you think you could secure those windows?
And you'll alert me if anything scary comes close to the cottage?
Oh, who am I kidding? When something scary comes close to the cottage! Please tell me my hiding place is ready.
Oh, look, you've filled it with everything I need to survive this awful night. Thank you. Thank you all! Now I don't have to step a hoof outside until this whole thing is over.
Oh, no! You don't have any carrots? Do we have any other fresh veggies you may enjoy?
Or maybe some hay? But that means I'll need to go out... on Nightmare Night!
[singsongy] Nightmare Night, what a fright! Give me something sweet to bite!
[singsongy] Nightmare Night, what a fright! Give me something sweet to bite!
Fluttershy? What're you doin' out and about? It's Nightmare Night, remember?
How could I forget? Oh, I don't suppose I could borrow a few pieces of hay from you? I forgot to stock up on food for Angel, and you do seem to have quite a lot.
We need it for the Apple Family Haunted Maze. [spooky voice] The scariest maze that there ever was. Who knows what lurks inside?
Oh, I'm sure I don't.
Is that a mummified pony that just leaped out at ya?
I don't know. Is it?
And what's that crunchin' sound beneath yer hooves? Maybe it's the bones of ponies that didn't make it out alive!
B-B-B-B-Bones?!
And are those peeled grapes or a thousand slimy eyeballs starin' at ya from beyond the grave?
Please tell me they're grapes!
Huh. I wonder what got stuck in her craw.
You think it's scary now, just wait until it's done.
That's okay. I'll take your word for it.
[grunts] Hey, wait a minute! It's Nightmare Night and you're here and not holed up in your cottage! Does this mean what I think it means?
That I foolishly forgot to stock up on food for Angel and had to go out to get him something but got spooked in town so I came here hoping Twilight had some lettuce I could give him?
Oh. I thought maybe you decided to come out with us tonight.
Goodness, no! I couldn't be out tonight. I just couldn't.
Technically speaking, you already are out right now.
Oh. I guess that is true.
So what if you stayed out a little longer with your friends? I know they'd be super excited.
You think so?
You would make them so happy if you joined in. They wouldn't believe their eyes! Come on, Fluttershy, what do you say?
And then it got very, very quiet and suddenly they realized the balloons had never been inflated!
Did I ever tell you about the night that the mannequin came to life and haunted all the costumes?
What happened?
I just told you, darling. A mannequin came to life and haunted all the costumes.
Hi, everypony.
Fluttershy, what are you doing here? Is everything okay?
Everything is fine. In fact, it's more than fine. I've decided to join you in your Nightmare Night festivities.
[scoffs] Seriously? You? Out? Tonight?
Every Nightmare Night, I shut myself in my cottage and refuse to come out until morning. But it's just like when I was afraid to sing in front of anypony. If I hadn't given it a try, I never would've found out how much I enjoy it.
And we'd have missed out on how great you sound.
Fluttershy with us on Nightmare Night? Why, that's positively the most wonderful news I've heard in ages!
You can get dressed up in a costume with us and play Nightmare Night games with us and eat candy apples with us!
Don't forget the best part. Goin' through my family's corn maze!
Oh, right. The maze.
Uh, only if you're up for it.
Oh, I am! I am ready to take on Nightmare Night!
Mummy? No. Headless pony? No. Vampire fruit bat? Ugh, definitely no. You see, Fluttershy, the beauty of Nightmare Night is that you don't have to dress up as something scary.
Ooh! Yes. This one will look gorgeous on you. Period costumes are all the rage this year. What? No good?
What if we encounter something terrifying and need to get away quickly? All those layers could slow me down, or worse, make me trip!
Oh. I never... considered that. Never fear!
[hums] Ooh, now this is a real stunner! I call it "Masquerade"! Just a simple black dress underneath but with this ornately decorated mask!
A mask?
No?
They can just be so difficult to see out of.
Yes, but this one has eyeholes.
W-What about being able to see what's to the left or right of me?
I suppose your vision would be somewhat obscured. It's your first Nightmare Night out and about, and we do want you to be comfortable.
What if I just wear the dress?
Oh, sure, dear. That's... fine. [to herself] It's so plain, it's frightening. [out loud] Oh, my! Look at all of you! My costumes fit you to a T!
Hoo-wee, we're gonna have the best time!
Hey, Fluttershy, where's your costume?
I'm wearing it.
[gasps] I get it! You're a robber escaping into the night! You're a ninja escaping into the night! You're black licorice escaping into the night!
Close. I'm going to a masquerade ball. Without the mask.
Oh, that's great! Isn't it great?
Oh, yeah.
So creative.
Great costume.
I figured I'd save the really scary games for next year when Fluttershy's more used to it.
Round and round and round you go, where you stop nopony knows!
Okay... go!
[grunting] Good luck beating that, Fluttershy!
Well, um, it's just that if I'm blindfolded and somepony were to leap out in front of me, I'd never have the chance to defend myself.
That's fine, darling. You don't have to do anything you don't want to.
We're just glad you're here.
We don't have to finish that game. I have another one I know you'll love! Bobbing for apples!
Fluttershy, what's wrong?
It's just that, um... What happens if, when my head is deep down in the water, some kind of scary monster appears? How would I even hear to know I was under attack?
Time for candy!
It is?
I made candy bags. Each bag has been made with each of you in mind, complete with each of your favorite candies!
Ha! Awesome!
Here. Take it. Take it! What are you waiting for?
Well, it's just... What if when I'm eating one of these chewy taffies, my mouth becomes glued shut and I can't scream for help?
Oh, goodness. We've only just started to celebrate Nightmare Night together, and I'm already taking all the fun out of it, aren't I?
You're not taking out all of the fun.
Just, like, ninety per—
...Some of it.
I really wanna do this. But there's just so many things that terrify me about tonight. I couldn't possibly predict what might upset me.
Unless... you were the one doing the scaring!
Her scaring us? [laughing] Oh. You're being serious.
The thing you hate is being scared, but if you're the one doing the scaring, then...
Then I can help you all have fun and I can still be a part of Nightmare Night!
So you like that idea?
I think I do! And I don't want to get ahead of myself, but I think I have the perfect idea for how I'm gonna do it!
Really? Oh, this is so exciting!
[spooky voice] Meet me at my cottage in an hour. [normal voice] Oh, I'm excited to see everypony soon!
[spooky voice] Welcome to Fluttershy's tea party!
Did she just say "tea party"?
It sounds like it's a scary tea party?
[spooky voice] Have a seat. Don't be scared of what awaits you. Go on. Pass the sugar. Oh, no! There is none! You're a terrible host! Rarity, put your coat on!
Why would I do that?
[spooky voice] You need to cover up because no one has complimented your dressssssss! Pinkie Pie, look to your left and ask your best friend to pass the cucumber sandwiches!
Huh? I can't. There's nopony there.
[spooky voice] That's right. Because she didn't care to show uuuuuup.
What?
[spooky voice] A friend who didn't come through. That must scare you to the coooore. Quick, everypony, look behind you!
Uh, what are those?
[spooky voice] They're unplanned guests. Your woooorst nightmare. You don't have enough food for them! Oh, no! There's a tiny kitten that needs a home! But you are over-scheduled right now. You don't have time to help! I said, "You don't have time to help!" This should appear to scare you! [normal voice] Why don't you look terrified? You showed up to a party and everypony was extremely disappointed in you. Can you imagine anything more upsetting?
It was a really good try, darling, but the scares at Nightmare Night are of an entirely different nature.
It was really creative, though. I never would have thought of... all this.
Oh, I'm just not cut out for this. Just go on without me.
Oh, no. We couldn't possibly.
You have to. This is the night you look forward to all year.
We could... stay here?
It's okay. I really want you all to have fun. This is how I spend every Nightmare Night. Please go. I'll be fine.
Eh, it's funny. I actually thought she had an idea for something really scary for a second there.
She definitely tried her hardest.
I did try my hardest.
Or... maybe not. I suppose I could have gone with something a bit scarier. You're right! I've been taking baby steps! I think it's time for grown up ones! I don't suppose you have any ideas how I could do that?
Everypony's linin' up for the corn maze, y'all! Let's go!
Oh, yeah! I can't believe we're finally doin' this!
It's a good thing Fluttershy isn't here because she would never be able to handle this!
Boooo... Eeyup.
What. Is. That. Sound?
It looks like... bones!
Looks like a bunch of dried sticks painted white to me.
Hey, try to keep up the illusion, would ya?
Gah!
Whoo!
Agh! What was that?
Don't you know?
Uh, o-of course I do. It was, uh...
[grunts] Fluttershy had a point with the layers on the dress.
What is this? Is it a tunnel? Where does it lead?!
Which way are we supposed to go now?!
Uh, I don't know! I don't know what's goin' on!
[grunts] What do you mean? Didn't you help plan this?
Applejack, didn't you know about any of this?!
Alright, I got to admit I didn't know about any of this, but maybe they're just tryin' to make it interestin' for me, too! I'm sure Granny Smith or Big Mac is behind this.
Eeyup.
[teeth chatter] That's what we were supposed to do! I don't know why we're down here! This is really scarin' me now!
How did that get down here?!
RUUUUUUUUUN!
I can't see!
I can barely move!
It's like glue!
Oh, my! I'm so, so sorry. Can you ever forgive me?
Fluttershy?
It was you the whole time?!
I can't believe it!
That... was...
It was way more terrifying than the most terrifying thing I could have thought of!
You out-nightmared the scariest part of the corn maze!
How did you do all this?!
After you left, I realized that I wasn't ready to give up on Nightmare Night. So I asked Granny Smith if I could try to make the maze even scarier for my friends.
You came up with all of this?
I had some help. Angel was the scary figure that kept scurrying after you in the maze. Fuzzy Legs made the sticky wall that made it difficult for you to see and move. And, of course, Harry was the especially scary monster.
Wow! That was inspired!
You have to do this every year!
Uh-huh!
Absolutely!
Every year!
Yeah!
We could celebrate Nightmare Night together every year. But the truth is I really don't want to.
You don't?!
But you've done it. You found a way that we can all have a fabulous time together.
Yes, but I've also realized something. You all may love Nightmare Night and I may be good at being a part of it, but it's no fun for me to see my friends feel like they're in danger, even if I know they're not. I really don't like it. It's just not my cup of tea.
Spoooooooooky tea?
No. Just regular tea. We do lots of fun things together, but I'm afraid this just isn't gonna be one of them. Actually, I'm not afraid. I'm perfectly fine with it.
Then we are, too.
[sighs] I don't know why I doubted myself for a second. Now this is what I call a perfect Nightmare Night.
[sighs] Didn't we just shelve all the books in the library a few months ago?
Yes, but that was because we needed to! This is just because I want to! I call it my "book-sort-cation"! Three uninterrupted days of reorganizing books. Can you think of anything more relaxing?
Well, claw massages, back rubs, bubble baths... You weren't really looking for an answer, were you?
I've even devised a better system for organizing them. It decreases the amount of time it takes to find a book you're looking for by nearly three quarters of a second!
[flatly] Whoa. That much?
Look at them all. Why, there must be at least twenty thousand books to organize!
Best long weekend ever! I'm sure we can make some time for a claw massage and a back rub too.
Yes! Best long weekend ever!
Whoa! That strange yellow orb in the sky! What is that?
Alright, alright, so it's been a little while since we've seen the sun.
A little while? We've been in that library for three straight days!
Yes, but they were three very productive days! Even if you did take that two-hour claw massage break.
Hey, you promise a claw massage, I'm getting a claw massage.
It's not like we missed anything.
Hello, Twilight! Hi, Spike!
Hi, Rainbow Dash. Good to see you, Discord.
Did you rehearse before you found us?
What makes you think we practiced?
Come on, Rainbow Dash. What's going on here?
[laughing] Sorry. Me and Discord are just messin' around. Like we do.
Since when?
[laughing] Sneaky snake!
[laughing] Just snaking around!
It is?
Kind of an inside joke from this weekend. You wouldn't really get it unless you were there.
Oh. Okay.
Cool. Well, uh, catch you later, Twilight!
[laughing] Catch you later, Twilight.
That was strange, right? Since when have Rainbow Dash and Discord had inside jokes?
Since sometime in the last three days, I guess.
Hey! Nopony made you join me on my book-sort-cation.
I'm jokin', I'm jokin'!
Rarity?
[gasps] Twilight! You've returned from your book sorting sabbatical! All that organizing has done wonders for your complexion!
Thanks! It was very relaxing. And we were able to clear a shelf for those old-fashioned books you wanted to donate.
Oh, pfft, they're not old, darling. They're vintage, and they're over there! I've even included my favorites by former Canterlot designer to the stars Rococo Froufrou!
Oh, I love her!
Him.
[laughs nervously] Both.
Twilight! This makes twice I'm seeing you in one day! Aren't I lucky?
Weren't you just with—
Hi, Twilight! Hi, Spike! How was your book-sort-cation?
It was good!
[giggles] Orange you glad you did it?
Oh, please. You'll make me blush.
You do seem to be turning a shade of... [gasps] orange!
Oh, sorry, darling. You see, we were at Sweet Apple Acres and, uh, ooh, how to explain...
Well, let me try and paint her a picture, dearest.
[to himself] "Dearest"?
[imitating Bob Ross] You see, we were all at Sweet Apple Acres, and I ended up turning the trees into the most— [normal] Oh, who am I kidding? I simply can't do it justice. You really had to be there.
We would've invited you to come along too, but we didn't want to interrupt your organizing. We know how important it is to you.
I appreciate that... Speaking of books, I should get these on the shelves.
Hmm. Rainbow Dash bonding with Discord, Rarity finding something he did genuinely funny... Must've been some weekend.
Somepony sorry she missed it?
Of course not.
What's got you two in hysterics?
[gulps] Oh, we were just reminiscing about the best weekend ever!
[hushed] He's everywhere today, isn't he?
Oh, now where was I? Ah, yes, we had just finished our soup, and then Applejack said, [imitating Applejack] "Peanut butter hoof? Yuck, not even with jelly!"
Eh, I don't get it.
[laughing] It was hilarious! I wish we'd taken a picture for you!
Oh, well, this should do!
I guess that's funny?
[within laughter] Sticky situation!
Aw, shucks, Twilight. We haven't even asked how your weekend went.
It was fine!
I am not glum. I'm glad! I'm glad you all had such a good time together. Having inside jokes can really create a lasting bond between friends.
I'm just sorry that all this bonding happened while you were holed up in your castle.
Heh. Oh, don't you worry about Twilight. Bet you were in hog heaven organizin' all them books. Again.
I'm sure I had just as much fun as the rest of you.
I can't believe I missed out on all that bonding!
[gulps] I knew it! You are jealous!
Spike, I'm the Princess of Friendship. I don't get jealous. I'm sorry I missed out because sharing that experience would've helped me with my Princess of Friendship duties!
[chewing] [mouth full] Come again?
If our friends could enjoy three full days with Discord that much, it must have something to do with the specific things they did together! If we could find out what those things were, it could be a real breakthrough in the science of friendship!
Hm. I guess so.
I know so! You thought our book-sort-cation was fun? This is gonna be even better!
Thank you for coming. I wouldn't have asked you here if it wasn't important.
I love important!
I want to know how these funny moments you shared came to pass. I can use this data to help advance friendships all over Equestria.
Well, I like the sound of that!
Perfect. Let's start with the snake.
I don't know if I can get it out! It's too funny!
Oh, but we must! It's for the greater good! It started when we were helping Granny Smith with her garden...
Uh, I reckon you mean my sister Apple Bloom.
Eh... All you Apples look the same. And then Rainbow Dash saw a snake!
I think it was a garden hose.
It was a hose snake. Super deadly.
I recall it bein' a large stick that looked like a hose that, in turn, did in fact resemble a snake.
Point is, we galloped away.
And it chased after us!
The hose? A snake? A stick?
A snake!
A hose!
A stick!
We literally trotted for our lives. Isn't that hilarious?
I guess you had to be there.
I do need to be there.
But you weren't! And it's already happened! Ooh, are you suggesting...
Time travel?!
Absolutely not! Time travel is not something to be messed with. We simply need to recreate everything that led to these jokes.
Oh, what a brilliant idea! Shall we begin with the lunch date that kicked off the glorious weekend you missed out on?
Are you sure it was this table?
Uh, does it really matter?
When it comes to science, everything matters. One change to the equation could ruin the experiment.
Ohhhhhh... it was this table here.
Alright, so you sat down at the table, and then what happened?
Oh, well, first I expressed my displeasure with the design of the menu. It—
I'm sorry to interrupt, but I just noticed something.
Yes?
The tablecloth. It isn't the same color as the one the restaurant used on the day in question.
...Really?
He's right! The tablecloth was red! I remember because it clashed with the font on the menus.
I don't suppose that means we're gonna need to get a new tablecloth, does it?
Oh, most definitely.
Ooh.
Wowee!
One change to the equation could ruin the experiment. Twilight said so herself. Anything stand out as being different? Anything at all?
Um, I've noticed a couple of things.
Me too!
Excellent!
A little to the left! No, my left! A little bit more... Oh, no, no, no, no, no, a little more right!
The cloud over our table looked like an ice cream sundae!
Perfect!
No-no-no-no-no, this is barely room temperature! Garçon! Garçon, over here!
No? Nothing?
Are you sure there's not something you've missed? Some other detail about your lunch together that you're forgetting?
Well, I don't know about the rest of you, but I feel we've been pretty exhaustive in our attempts to recreate every single detail of our previous encounter.
Yeah, Twilight. If you don't get it by now, I don't think you're ever gonna get it.
But it is really important that I figure this out. It's for the good of all Equestria!
Well, perhaps we should have another look at the data we've collected. [gasps] Of course! There is one last variable that we haven't accounted for.
What?
You!
Me?
You weren't there observing us. No matter how hard we try, we can't possibly recreate our weekend of fun exactly as it happened because you'll always be watching, and you weren't there.
Hmmm.
He makes a good point.
It has only served to prove that moments of levity and bonding between friends simply cannot be recreated so that others might share in the experience.
He makes another good point!
Oh, don't worry, darling. I'm sure there'll be plenty of other chances for you to share in the kind of [starts giggling] frivolity we had with Discord while you were away.
[laughing] Absolutely.
I'm not buying it. Not for a second. There is definitely something else going on here, Spike!
[gulps] Or maybe there isn't, and you should just drop this whole thing and admit that you're a little jealous!
Even if I'm not able to laugh at what happened, I should be able to figure out why they find it funny. Why they think they had this amazing and hilarious time together. But I can't figure it out! It doesn't make sense!
Some things just can't be explained.
Our friends think something great happened to them while I was away, but no. It was something awful! If we don't break the spell they're under, who knows what terrible things could happen?!
Spell?
Come on, Spike! There's no time to lose!
Zecora, what do you think? Can you undo Discord's magic?
In what way can you tell that they are indeed under a spell?
They're having fun with Discord, that's why!
Ah. A friendship with Discord is truly a shock. But who says it is something that we must block?
Trust me, they would never laugh like that unless something magical was involved. It's not that funny. I know funny.
Alright. This potion will break the spell, then you will be able to tell.
Wait. If that's the potion, then what's brewing in your cauldron?
It ties the room together and emits a warm glow. But if I am to be honest, it's just for show.
[yawns] I wonder why she asked us here so bright and early.
Another map adventure, perhaps?
Nope, no glowing tushies here!
Or maybe it's more of a non-adventure. Maybe she just wants to tell us how last night's slumber went?
Hey, gang!
Ooh, you look excited!
I am excited! We're gonna have fun today!
Yes!
Just one tiny, minuscule, microscopic thing before fun times. I need everypony to sip this potion to break Discord's spell on you!
A what now?
Don't be embarrassed. So what if Discord cast a spell on you so you thought you had a great time, and now you have all these inside jokes that you seem to be constantly laughing at? Don't worry! You didn't have your defenses up. I get it.
You're kidding.
Twilight, darling, we simply had a nice time with Discord. As I recall, we spent much of yesterday afternoon reenacting it for you.
Uh-huh. Or you reenacted what you thought was fun but really wasn't because you were under a spell that made you think what happened was fun!
What kind of fertilizer have you had your nose in, Twilight?
Be honest. The only reason you won't drink the potion is because, deep down in your hearts, you know there's a chance that Discord has you under his power!
Twilight, how could you say such a thing?! I know Discord still makes mistakes sometimes, but you're accusing him of being downright evil!
Yeah! And to top it off, you're accusing us of not being able to tell he was up to something! What do you take us for?
Yeah! [glug] What do you [glug] take us for?!
Dee-licious! Got any more, Twilight?
Hi, Twilight! The gang mentioned we'd all be hanging out together today!
"The gang"?
[laughing] It's still funny!
[hushed] So much for that whole "spell" theory.
Ugh. But it's still not funny!
It's funny if you were there.
But I wasn't there! I wasn't included! Maybe it's my own fault for staying in and having a book-sort-cation when I could have been making jokes and memories and having a great time with my friends! But I didn't do that, did I?! You all did! You were all there, but—! [sighs] I wasn't there. I missed out. And seeing you having all these jokes I wasn't a part of and couldn't understand made me...
Jealous?
No. The Princess of Friendship can't get jealous.
Sure you can, Twilight, and none of us begrudge you for it.
We're sorry if we made you feel left out.
You didn't do anything wrong. You're allowed to share things that don't include me.
And you're allowed to feel a little jealous about it. You just have to be able to admit that that's what you're feeling so you can let it go.
And, you know, not try to make us recreate everything that happened when you weren't around.
Of course none of this would've happened if I hadn't encouraged everypony not to invite you this weekend.
They wanted me to be there? And you convinced them to not invite me?
Well, I didn't think that they should interrupt you. But now I see that we should have. Oh, I feel just terrible.
You don't look like you feel terrible.
Better?
Wait a minute. You didn't suggest not inviting Twilight because you wanted to make her feel left out, did you?
Of course not. That whole jealousy thing was just a happy accident.
Certainly we can all agree that Princess Twilight learned a valuable lesson here – that even she can have feelings of jealousy, that she should recognize said feelings rather than trying to pretend that she doesn't have them. Mm-hmm. Did I get the tiniest bit of glee out of watching her try to recreate our weekend of fun in the name of science? Oh, most definitely! But what's important here is that it was never my intent to make Twilight feel jealous. That's something that the old me would have tried to do. Orange you glad I've changed?
I said, Orange you glad I've changed?
Orange! Like the ones at the Applejack farm! I-I mean, from this weekend!
No? Nothing? Really? I thought you'd find this hisss-terical!
...Yes, no. Discord, I think these jokes have run their course.
Only way we'd find them funny now is if you put us all under some kind of spell!
Come on, you'd have to be a complete crazy pony to think he'd do something like that! What are you gonna say next, Pinkie? That we all have to drink some weird potion to break the spell?
W-W-What's so funny?
Come on, Discord, do we really have to spell it out for you?
I-I-I don't get it. Somepony want to tell me what's so hilarious? Anypony? Hello?!
I'm talking to you! You! And-and you and you! W-W-What's funny about spells? I mean, really, I don't get it, I feel left out and I feel really bad about that...
Sorry, buddy. Guess you had to be there.
Does everyanimal have their copy of Wuthering Hooves? Hooray! I love Furry Friends Book Club! Now, let's discuss the theme of nature as it applies to Hoofcliff's love.
Did somepony leave a light on? Oh, it's me. Oh! It's me!
We'll continue this discussion when I get back!
You're here!
Isn't this exciting?!
Oh! You were called, too! Thank goodness. I feel so much better going with a friend.
I was about to come and get you, but then I got distracted.
Oh.
Ever since the map called us, I've been doing a ton of research.
Testing out potential friendship problems.
Diversifying my solution portfolio.
Ever since the map called us? But that happened five minutes ago.
I know! But I wanna be one hundred percent prepared! I mean, I'm the Princess of Friendship. How would it look if I couldn't solve a friendship problem?
Oh, I'm so lucky I'm being sent with you. Speaking of which, where are we going?
The Smokey Mountains!
Oh, I've never been there before.
Neither have I. And there isn't a lot of information on them. All I could find was this. The Smokey Mountains harbor the most beautiful valley in all of Equestria between its two majestic mountain peaks.
That's gorgeous. And where there's nature, there's a ton of animal friends!
I can't wait to get started! I'm a little nervous since that's all I could find. I usually like to be a bit more prepared.
You seem pretty prepared to me. Are those for us?
Yep! I've prepared our things. Snacks, books, blankets, books.
You said "books" twice.
There are a lot of books.
Ooh!
What do ya think our friendship problem's gonna be?
Do you think it'll be a problem about lying?
[grunts] I'm sure we'll find out when we get there.
You're right.
Ooh! Could it be about when two friends just randomly decide to do something together, but they forget to invite the third friend, and the third friend feels left out?
Or where one friend tells another friend's secret after they asked them not to?
[exhausted] We'll know very, very soon. Since we're almost there.
Here. Lemme get that.
[sighs] Thank you.
Sorry I've been a little skiddly-bopty-boo. I just can't believe this is finally happening!
Whoa!
Whoa! What in Equestria is happening?
It's nothing like your book said it would be!
Oh, boy. I'm feeling very unprepared. Where do we even start?
Maybe by figuring out where the flying pumpkins are coming from?
Ready... Aim... Fire!
Um, hi. Hello. Excuse us, but what are you doing?
We're pumpkinin' our neighbors!
Yes, but, um, why are you... "pumpkining" your neighbors?
Well, because the McColts are just plain rotten. Hey, wait a tick. Who are you two?! You're not spies for the McColts, are ya?
I am Twilight Sparkle, the Princess of Friendship. And I am here to solve your friendship problem.
I'm Fluttershy, and... um... I'm here, too.
Ma Hooffield. Pleased to meet ya, but you're wastin' your time. We don't have a friendship problem. We have... a McColt problem.
"Buzzard Hooffield": And there's absolutely no friendship there.
Well, maybe there could be if we figure out what the McColts did to make you so mad.
Oh, they done so many things. Why, just today, they shot pebbles at our farmhouse an' wrecked it. See, we're not very good at buildin', so all it took was a little pebble. But still!
Oh, no!
I know what to do. We're gonna talk with these McColts and hear their side of the story. Once we have all the facts, we can put an end to this using reason and rationale.
Good plan. [to mice] That's why she's the princess.
In the meantime, could you please call off the pumpkining?
Oh, alright.
Thanks. C'mon, Fluttershy.
"Steel Bolts": State your business!
"Rosy Riveter": Don't even bother. They're probably spies for the Hooffields.
"Steel Bolts": Hey, wait! You're an Alicorn! I thought just the three princesses were Alicorns.
There are four Alicorn princesses in Equestria now. I am Twilight Sparkle, the Princess of Friendship.
And I'm Fluttershy.
"Steel Bolts": We have a new princess? When did that happen? A-A-And how did the Hooffields come by a princess spy?
We are not spies! [to Fluttershy] Why does everypony assume we're spies?
Because we don't get a lot of visitors. I'm Big Daddy McColt. You caught us at a weird time. We're in the middle of a giant feud with our... Terrible neighbors!
Well, actually, that's why we're here – to solve your problem with the Hooffields.
So you're here to help us get rid of 'em.
No! That's not what I meant at all!
Well, if you ain't fer us, you're agin' us.
We are not on anypony's side. We're here to help you become friends again.
Well, that's gon' be hard. I don't believe we've ever been friends with the Hooffields!
But you could be! They're just really upset you ruined their farmhouse.
Wait a hog-wogglin' minute! We only did that because the Hooffields pulled the pin out of our wagon wheel!
A whole week's worth of food rollin' down the mountain. Us McColts are mighty fine builders, but we don't know the first thing about farmin'.
We have to travel a ways away to buy our food. Now, we'll be stuck eatin' the pumpkins the Hooffields launched at us. Pumpkin bread, pumpkin soup, pumpkin [mispronounced] quesadillas, pumpkin paella, pumpkin cheese, pumpkin pie, pumpkin frittatas... Actually, that all sounds pretty good. But it'll get old!
Have you tried meeting at a neutral location, talking about your problems, and really listening to each other?
What?! No! They'd sooner launch their dinners at us than listen to us.
Well, they'll listen to me. I'm an impartial third party.
[voice amplified] Attention, Hooffields and McColts! I'm not on anypony's side, but I can see you're both wasting time and resources on being mean to each other. Ponies are supposed to help each other and be kind. So let's stop this senseless fighting! [speaking normally] There. That should do it. Ready to go home, Fluttershy?
I'd love to. But if we solved the problem already, shouldn't our cutie marks be glowing again?
Oh, yeah. They should be glowing any minute now...
Or not.
So much for potential friendship solution number twenty-eight.
I guess we should find out why the Hooffields are launching tomatoes now.
One at a time, Greenhoof. If you smoosh them tomaters in the slingshot, they won't break on the McColts.
What are you doing? I asked you to stop fighting.
Oh, is that what you were hollerin' about? We thought the McColts rubbed ya the wrong way. So we tomatered them for ya. My mistake. [to Hooffields] Stop the tomater slingshots!
Reload the tomater slingshots! We're gonna paint their mountaintop red!
Bleh!
Well, that didn't work. I was so sure it would.
[gasps] It was a good plan. We need to think of another one. And soon. This fight is really affecting the animals around here.
Not to worry. I'll just, uh...
...find the root of the problem and work from there.
Pardon us, Ma, but do you remember what started this whole feud in the first place?
They know what they did.
They know what they did!
I'm starting to think neither of you know what either of you have done.
Sure, we do. Them Hooffields did us a grave injustice some time ago for some reason.
Hear, hear!
Okay, backup plan to the backup plan. Maybe we can find some common ground that you can bond over. What do you do when you're not fighting?
That's easy. Gettin' ready to fight.
What do you hope to get out of fighting?
The satisfaction of winnin'!
Of winning what?
The fight, of course! To prove our family is the best!
The best at what?
Winnin'! Haven't you been listenin'?!
So the only thing they have in common is that they both want to win a fight, and neither of them know what it's over. How can I end this feud if I don't know what it's about?
Ooh! Maybe somepony just needs to say they're sorry.
That's a good idea. And friendship solution number forty-eight. But we can move it up.
I'm so glad you agreed to do this. This apology cake will go a long way to making amends between you two. Which part of my argument changed your mind? The part where I said the benefits of friendship outweigh the cost of war, or the part where I said forgiveness is an investment in happiness?
Yeah, yeah. All of it.
Wait. Are you even listening to me?
"Steel Bolts": Who goes there?!
It's Ma Hooffield.
"Steel Bolts": Hooffield alert! Arm the cannons!
With an apology cake!
"Steel Bolts": Did you say "cake"? As in... [slurps] cake?
Consider it a gesture of goodwill from us to you.
"Rosy Riveter": I haven't had cake in ages.
"Steel Bolts": Open the gates!
"Hacksaw McColt": [sniffles] Oh, it's such a bee-utiful cake.
Think of this as more than just a cake. It's the first step in the long road to forgiveness.
Nothing says "let's be friends" like a cake that says, "Let's be friends!" [hushed] I wrote that in icing on the top.
For glory! Whoa!
McColts! Assume Delta Force formation!
Yah!
Ready... aim... fire!
Ma Hooffield, you planted ponies in that cake?!
Yeah! [laughing] Wait. Were you serious about apologizin'? Why in Equestria would we do that? We didn't do anythin' wrong!
What're you talkin' about?! You done so many things wrong!
Not as many as you!
Um, if you could just not yell so much or maybe stop saying words altogether...
Wah! Twilight?
Um, Twilight? We should probably get back there. I mean, if you need a break, that's fine, but I really can't do this without you.
I don't know if we can do this at all. Even if I make things right, they're just gonna fight again.
Hey, little fellas. Oh, that's okay, you can come out.
What was that?
Oh, you poor things! There isn't enough food here for you! Oh, brrr, and you're freezing! I'm gonna take you all home with me and get you all hot cocoas. How do you feel about book clubs?
I don't get it. This was supposed to be the most beautiful valley in all of Equestria. What happened?
What's that? Oh! Uh-huh... Twilight! They know what happened here!
What?
Stop! You have to listen to me!
[straining] Fluttershy! You have to tell them! [strains] It's a lot harder to freeze an army of ponies than just six of them!
[raised voice] Before you keep fighting, there is something you should know! Long ago, there were two best friends...
[voiceover] ...Grub Hooffield and Piles McColt. When they found the valley between the Smokey Mountains, they knew it was something special. So they made a promise to each other to protect and preserve the valley for all its adorable furry inhabitants. But they disagreed on how to go about it. Grub wanted to start by planting crops so that everypony would have something to eat. But Piles thought it would be better to start by building a shelter to protect them against the cold and wind. The two ponies were unable to come to an understanding, so Piles went ahead and built a shelter anyway, exactly where Grub was gonna start his farm! Grub was upset, so he tore down Piles' shelter so he could plant his crops!
[voiceover] They kept fighting back and forth, until it turned into a feud!
[voiceover] The valley suffered from the constant destruction, until finally the Hooffields and McColts moved to separate mountains.
Even then, the valley and all the animals in it continued to be caught in the crossfire. You see? By fighting, you're destroying the very thing that brought you here in the first place! So it's time you both put your differences aside and come together! If not for yourselves, then for the sake of these cute and cuddly guys!
Aw, shucks, we never meant to hurt you little critters.
Yeah, we're sorry!
They say they accept your apology.
Uh, princess? You can unfreeze us now.
[straining] Oh, right!
Ma Hooffield? We promise we won't fight you no more.
Us too, except we promise not to fight you. I suppose it doesn't matter who's right. We're both wrong.
That's one thing we can agree on.
This is wonderful! I am so proud of you two!
Aw, thanks, princess. Though I would just like to point out that I was the, uh, first to admit I was wrong.
That may be, but I promised not to fight first. That counts for more!
Oh, yeah?!
Oh, all right. We don't have to speak animal to know what y'all are sayin'. Truce?
Truce.
Woo-hoo! Ain't that a pretty sight?
Sure is! The McColts are gonna help us rebuild our homes! Good ones this time.
And the Hooffields are gonna help us grow some crops!
"Steel Bolts": Not pumpkins.
Thanks for teachin' us that friendship is so much better than winnin' a silly argument.
Yay! I told you we'd figure it out.
We did, and we didn't need my friendship portfolio to do it. We just needed each other. So, what do you think will happen next? We've all been called by the map now.
Oof! [straining] I'm sure we'll find out when we get home...
What if it summons all six of us to another place? Or another pony we weren't expecting? [gasps] What if it wants us to solve other kinds of problems, like quantum physics, or why the apple doesn't fall far from the tree?
Wow, Applejack! Are you sure you've never managed a concert before?
Well, it turns out doin' up a concert's the same as settin' up a rodeo.
And thanks to Pinkie's connections organizing the Ponypalooza Rock Concert, we've got quite a lineup for the Helping Hooves Music Festival.
Twilight! Applejack! Rainbow Dash! Rarity! Fluttershy! Spike! Pinkie Pie! Oh wait, that's me. Everypony!
What is it, Pinkie?
I have the most amazing news ever! It is totally gonna freak your frizz!
Well, spill it, Pinkie!
It wasn't easy. In fact, it was terribly difficult. But I have managed to book the biggest pony pop star in all of Equestria as the main attraction of the Helping Hooves Music Festival!
Sapphire Shores?
Sapphire Shores?! Please! Sapphire Shores is merely the second biggest pony pop star in Equestria. I have booked the one, the only, Countess Coloratura!
Fluttershy, Rainbow Dash, Ahhh...
Who in the hay is Countess Coloratura?
My frizz has been freaked!
Pinkie Pie, who is this Countess Coloratura pony?
Uh, I just told you that she's the biggest pony pop star in Equestria! How-how-how-how-how have you not heard of her?!
Don't know. Though I did know a gal named Coloratura when I was just a filly. [laughs and snorts] Wouldn't it just be the funniest thing if that Coloratura and this Coloratura were the same Coloratura? Heh.
Do you mean to tell me that you actually know Countess Coloratura?
Well, I don't think it's the same pony, since my friend wasn't any sort of high-falutin' countess.
Do you remember her cutie mark?
Sure do. It had this super colorful bunch of musical notes that just shimmered in the light.
You mean... like this?!
Well, fancy that! That there's the very same cutie mark!
Do you have any idea the number of hoops I had to jump through to get her to perform at the festival?! A whole lot of hoops! That pony is very demanding!
Nah.
Yah!
I completely understand. We artistes require certain necessities in order to do our best work.
This was clearly some sort of misunderstandin', 'cause Rara was just as down home as me!
Fluttershy, Pinkie Pie, Rainbow Dash, Rarity, Royal Riff, Spike, Rara?!
Even that big name was too fancy for her, so I shortened Coloratura to "Rara"!
[voiceover] We had the best time at Camp Friendship!
[voiceover] Rara was just so easygoin'! We were like two apples from the same branch.
[voiceover] Rara and I prepared this song for the camp talent show. When we performed, she belted it out, singin' in the most colorful, clear voice I'd ever heard!
Equestria, the land I love A land of harmony Our flag does wave from high above For ponykind to see
Equestria, a land of friends Where ponykind do roam They say true friendship never ends Equestria, my home
[voiceover] After camp, we wrote to each other for a bit, but...
...then we lost touch. But Rara always did want to go to Manehattan to try and make it big. But a demandin' diva? Just you wait, Pinkie. Once Rara gets here, you'll see she's just a plain old pony like you and me.
I don't have to wait – she's here!
Really?
Rara?
[squealing] Countess Coloratura!
Clear the way! Stand back! Keep your hooves and tail to yourselves!
No... that can't be her. [clears throat] Um... hi. Remember me? We met at Camp Friendship? I gave you the nickname "Rara"?
AJ?
Yeah! Heh. Howdy, Rara!
Ooh, you got hoofsies from Countess Coloratura! Look! Ooh, she clearly thinks you're very special!
Yeah... real special.
Now that's how you make an entrance! Big, bold, absolutely stunning! Though it was muddied a bit with your interaction with that dusty farmpony. Do you actually know her?
Oh, yeah, that's my childhood fillyfriend AJ! She was the one that started calling me Rara.
Oh, yes, how cute and... common. Of course, I was the one that started calling you Countess, and just look at how you've moved up in Equestria since then! Why, you've gotten everything you've ever wanted! Speaking of which, where is the pony Pinkie Pie?
Ooh! I'm the pony Pinkie Pie, Mr. Manager, sir!
Do you have the water imported from Rainbow Falls that I requested for Countess Coloratura?
I have twenty glass containers full right here!
Did I not tell you to provide straws in all of Countess Coloratura's beverages?
Uh, I don't think so. But lucky for you, I have the biggest straw collection in Equestria! I call this straw Fernando.
Hm. Let us confirm that you acquired the rest of the items that Countess Coloratura requested before she performs her run-through, shall we?
Ooh, we shall!
Floral arrangements from the royal Canterlot gardens... Chocolate éclairs made by Gustave le Grand... A selection of crystals from the Crystal Empire... Freshly picked cherries from Cherry Jubilee's farm separated red from yellow...
Abso-toot-ly!
Well, by some miracle, your requests have been reasonably met. So let us move on... to rehearsal!
See, Applejack? Demanding!
Pinkie's right, Rarity! The Rara I knew didn't hide behind a veil givin' out fake stamp kisses, sippin' up imported water, and needin' her cherries separated.
Oh, I do understand. Sometimes it's hard to see our friends change.
She's become a whole other pony!
Trust me. Once you see Countess Coloratura perform, you simply won't believe it!
Time for the spectacle Time for the show The lights are bright and the colors glow
I'm not just anypony I think you know The time is now, it's about to blow!
Razzle dazzle Glitz and glam Turn it all up, it's a spectacle
Razzle dazzle Glitz and glam Turn it all up, it's a spectacle
Give me more Razzle dazzle Glitter eyes, big surprise Lights, cameras
Razzle dazzle Glitz and glam Turn it all up, it's a spectacle
Hear the applause Here to impress Not just a pony, I am the Countess!
Rarity was right! I don't believe it!
Oh, my shining star! Thanks to the sparkling costumes, dazzling choreography, and brilliant vocal effects that I designed, your performance was spectacular, Countess Coloratura!
Oh, [short laugh], thank you, Svengallop!
Correct me if I'm wrong here, but that feller isn't actually complimentin' Rara. He's complimentin' all the bells and whistles he's piled on to make her Countess Coloratura.
Oh, no-no-no-no-no, you don't understand, Applejack. Creating all those elements is a lot of work, and Countess Coloratura's performance wouldn't exist without them.
If you ask me, that wouldn't necessarily be a bad thing.
Oh, if we're all done here, I'd love to go back to my trailer and rest, Svengallop.
Actually, right now you're scheduled for your meet and greet with the schoolponies!
Ugh. I can totally get you out of meeting with the schoolponies, Countess.
Absolutely not. My favorite part of any event is meeting with the schoolponies!
The schoolponies'll be so happy to hear that, Rara!
Ponyville schoolponies! As part of the Helping Hooves Music Festival, I'm holding a contest where some of you will get a chance to sing with me onstage at the concert tomorrow! Sound fun?
Alright! Now who wants more hoofsies?
Now that's more like the Rara I remember.
[distant] But... I got everything you requested!
That was for Countess Coloratura! This is for me! And what I want is premium oats!
Oh! Well, we have lots of tasty oats right here in Ponyville!
I would not feed those to a chicken! I want top-of-the-line Appleloosan oats! Next, it appears that we are surrounded by apple trees. Bring me five hundred pre-peeled, pre-cored apples, and I want those things in twenty-four hours!
[gasps] But that's impossible!
Do you want me to pull Countess Coloratura from your little podunk charity show?! Because I will!
Applejack! Svengallop just made all of these new demands and he said—
I heard, Pinkie. But don't you fret. I'll talk to Rara and fix things right up.
Did'ja see, sis?! Did'ja see?!
Is this the little sister you wrote to me about, AJ?
Hold on, Applejack. You wrote to Countess Coloratura about me?!
AJ said you were the best little sister ever, Apple Bloom!
Alright now, you'd best get along, little ponies.
Uh... Hey, Rara, you mind if I talk to you about your manager?
Sure, what about him?
Well, while you were meetin' with the schoolponies, he was demandin' all sorts of stuff from Pinkie Pie.
Svengallop works very hard as my manager, AJ, so if he needs some things when we're on the road, I don't see anything wrong with that.
Well, do you see somethin' wrong with him tellin' Pinkie that if she doesn't get those things by tomorrow, he'd pull you from our charity festival?
What? But he knows how important charity is to me, and leaving the festival would completely ruin my image!
I'm afraid Svengallop doesn't give a pickled pippin about your charity work.
That's not true! Svengallop has always supported me in all my interests. You're just saying those things because you're jealous!
Jealous of what? A pony who hides behind a veil so thick she can't see when somepony's usin' her? No, I'm not jealous of that, Rara!
I am not Rara! I am Countess Coloratura! And while we may have been friends when we were young, we have clearly gone in different directions!
It just ain't right! He's manipulatin' her, and she's just not seein' it!
Enough stewin', more peelin'!
Sorry, Pinkie, but there is no way I'm lettin' that lousy Svengallop use my friend like that!
Countess Coloratura!
Wow, AJ, you said my real name.
I said your new name, but I saw the real you hangin' out with those schoolponies yesterday. And I know somepony that'd prefer if you stop doin' those little events.
Ugh, not this again.
Come on now. You've just got to give me a chance to prove what I'm sayin' is true.
And just how are you going to do that?
Do exactly what I say. We'll see if that Svengallop truly has your best interests at heart.
Svengallop? Svengallop! Where are you, Svengallop?
Here I am! Did you need something?
Yes, I was... considering... m-maybe cancelling the contest with the schoolponies...?
Countess, this is wonderful! I've been waiting forever for you to cancel that pointless schoolpony contest.
You... have?
You do it at every charity event, and it does absolutely nothing to promote the Countess Coloratura image that I built! Consider it cancelled. Pinkie Pie!
We are making some adjustments to the show. Follow me!
Cancel the contest for the fillies and schedule me a spa treatment. Now that I don't have to oversee a rehearsal with those brats, I have time for the works! You know the drill! Deliver, or the diva ditches your dippy charity!
Okay, Countess Coloratura, all taken care of!
[amplified] You know the drill! Deliver, or the diva ditches your dippy charity!
So that's how you've been managing things?
Yeah, so? What's the problem?
The problem is, is you've been using my name to intimidate ponies to get what you want!
But I work incredibly hard for you! I deserve everything I get!
But not because you scare ponies into thinking I won't perform for their charities otherwise! I would never do that to my fans! Which is why you should have known that I would never cancel the schoolponies' contest!
Hmph. All this charity and schoolpony contest nonsense is just remnants of that boring little Rara I met back in Manehattan!
You clearly don't understand the real me!
Ha, that's a joke! I made you somepony! What can you even do without me? Good luck, Countess Coloratura! Good luck.
Oh, Rara, I'm so sorry. Are you gonna be okay for the concert tonight?
Of course. After all, the show must go on!
Oh, my gosh, Rarity, Svengallop's right! This is gonna be a disaster! I'm gonna be terrible!
Can you give us a minute, Rarity?
Certainly.
Now, why's it gonna be so terrible?
Because Svengallop was in charge of everything! The lights, the visuals, the sound! Without Svengallop, I have nothing!
Now, now, don't go gettin' yourself into a tizzy there, Rara. Svengallop turned you into Countess Coloratura and acted like your friend so he could enjoy the perks that came with bein' a star. But the real perk of friendship is gettin' to see your friend bein' true to their self. And Rara, when you're simply yourself, you're the brightest star I've ever seen shine.
Good evening, everypony! Welcome to opening night of the Helping Hooves Music Festival! Now it is my great honor to introduce you to our headlining act – Countess Coloratura!
This song may be familiar, but yet, it's totally different. Kind of like me, Rara.
I'm here to show you who I am Throw off the veil, it's finally time There's more to me than glitz and glam, oh-whoa And now I feel my stars align
For I had believed what I was sold I did all the things that I was told But all that has changed, and now I'm bold 'Cause I know
That I am just a pony I make mistakes from time to time But now I know the real me And put my heart out on the line
And let the magic in my heart stay true Whoa-whoa-whoa-whoa And let the magic in my heart stay true Whoa-whoa-whoa-whoa Just like the magic inside of you
And now I see those colors Right before my eyes I hear my voice so clearly And I know that it is right
They thought I was weak, but I am strong They sold me the world, but they were wrong And now that I'm back, I still belong 'Cause I know
That I am just a pony I make mistakes from time to time But now I know the real me And put my heart out on the line
And let the magic in my heart stay true Whoa-whoa-whoa-whoa And let the magic in my heart stay true Whoa-whoa-whoa-whoa Just like the magic inside of you
Just like the magic inside of you...
[amplified] Thank you, everypony! When I arrived at the Helping Hooves Music Festival, I had forgotten who I really was! But then an old friend reminded me what real friendship is about, and she told me that if I was true to myself, I couldn't go wrong! So I have a very special surprise for her. Apple Bloom, Sweetie Belle, Scootaloo, come on up!
Equestria, the land I love A land of harmony Our flag does wave from high above For ponykind to see
Equestria, a land of friends Where ponykind do roam They say true friendship never ends Equestria, my home
If somepony had told me when I was a blank flank that one day I'd give a speech to a class at Celestia's School of Magic, I wouldn't have believed it, but...
I hope that I have been up to the task, because I can tell that all of you are and that the future of Equestrian magic is in good hooves.
Eh, I don't know, Spike. I'd like to be able to get through the whole speech without looking at the cards.
Come on, Twilight! You can't be nervous about giving a speech to a bunch of magic students!
Oh, I'm not nervous, Spike, but I do have to set a good example, especially for magic students. That's why this speech has to be...
[sighs] Perfect?
Exactly. Let's go through it one more time. [clears throat] When Princess Celestia asked me to speak to you today, I was honored to have the opportunity to talk about my favorite subject: magic.
Obviously, the long term effects of...
Shhhh.
...the simultaneous acquisition of cutie marks has yet to be determined, but... [sips water] Ahem. Next slide, please.
[snoring] Huh? Huh!
I can speak from my own experience that the power of Cutie Mark Magic is very real, and in the instance of my friends and I, it can be traced to a single event! Without Rainbow Dash's race to defend Fluttershy's honor, this rainboom wouldn't have happened. Fluttershy might never have discovered her love of animals. Applejack might never have realized that she belonged on her farm. And Pinkie Pie might never have decided to leave hers. It might be hard to imagine Rarity without her sense of fabulousness. But it's even harder to fathom what my life would be like. Without this rainboom, I might not have gotten into magic school. Celestia wouldn't have taken me on as her pupil or sent me to Ponyville to meet my friends. And the most powerful thing about Cutie Mark Magic that I found is the connection I share with them.
But, um...
The real question about... Cutie Mark Magic is... who it seems to affect.
Starlight Glimmer?
I was sure I saw her, Spike. But when I looked again, she was gone! I'm just worried what she could be up to.
Nothing good, I bet. I heard she wasn't very happy the last time you saw her.
Forcing everypony in her village to have the same cutie mark wasn't right. We had to do something!
And now she's coming back for revenge. Uh, or she was just really interested in your speech!
Honestly, Spike. I'm not really sure what I saw. But as long as I have my friends, I know everything will be all right.
Maybe I was just more stressed about that speech than I thought.
Yeah. That sounds better than Starlight Glimmer coming back with an evil plot for revenge.
Well, when you say it like that, it does sound kinda silly.
Or it's totally true!
Welcome home, Twilight!
What are you doing, Starlight?
Where'd she go?
I don't know, Spike, but I think we better find out!
I guess we could start with this.
Spike, no! Don't touch that!
[continued screaming] Cloudsdale? Starlight doesn't even have wings! Why would she come here?
I don't know, Spike, but it looked like she could fly with just magic! Keep your eyes open. We don't know what she has planned.
Isn't that Rainbow Dash?
Did Rainbow Dash look really young to you? And I didn't see a cutie mark. You don't think...
...We traveled back in time to when Rainbow Dash raced the bullies who made fun of Fluttershy and performed her first sonic rainboom?
Spike, only Star Swirl the Bearded could do something like that, and even his spell just went back a week! How could Starlight do more than the greatest wizard in Equestria?
With this.
Star Swirl's spell! Oh, no!
Come on, let's go!
Go where?
To watch the race. I don't wanna miss the rainboom! Whoa!
Whoa!
Heh. Later, Rainbow Crash!
Hey!
Aw, sorry about this.
Hey! What gives?
What did you do?!
You are about to find out.
Ugh... I don't know what Starlight's up to yet, but we'd better figure it out before it's too late.
Um, Twilight? I think it already is.
Uh, Twilight? Where's your castle?
The map pulled us back, but whatever Starlight did in the past changed things here!
But why? And how did we get here? Where's here?
More like when.
What do you mean?
Starlight altered Star Swirl's spell, then somehow used it on the map to travel into the past and change something! Once she did, the map pulled us back to the present!
So we're back where— I mean, when we started?
Not exactly. Everything's different. Look. The map doesn't even make sense anymore! The Crystal Empire takes up half of Equestria!
Plus there's the whole missing castle thing.
Right! This is too big to handle on our own.
You think?
We need to find our friends and get help!
I'm gettin' a bad feeling about this, Twilight.
I know, Spike, but this is Ponyville. How bad could things be?
Is that Sugarcube Corner?
I don't understand.
[gasps] [panting] Rarity?
[grunts] Rarity?!
I don't think she's here, Spike. I'm not sure anything we know is the same. But I know one place that could never change!
Applejack?!
What can I do for you?
It's so good to see you! We couldn't find Pinkie or Rarity or Fluttershy or Rainbow Dash, but I just knew you'd still be here!
Of course I am. This is my home. But who in tarnation is Pinkie Bow and Flutterdash? Or you for that matter?
You... don't know who I am?
Nope. Honestly, the only name I recognize is Rarity, but she left for Manehattan years ago.
Probably to become a world-famous fashion designer, I bet.
Not that I know of. Last I heard, she went to help with the cause like everypony else.
The cause?
The war against King Sombra and the Crystal Empire?
What?!
Where have you two been?
Actually, it's when.
I know this is hard to believe, but you and I and those other ponies I mentioned are friends!
Did you bump your head on a crate of cider or somethin'?
I'm telling you the truth! And if you come with me, I'll prove it.
Well, I'll admit. I've lived in these parts my whole life and I've never seen this before.
There's also supposed to be a castle that goes with it.
But I still don't see what this has to do with you and I bein' friends.
Another pony named Starlight Glimmer used this map to travel through time and change things in the past. For some reason, the map's here but everything else is different!
Different how?
Well, for one thing, where we came from, there's no war with King Sombra. Maybe you could tell us how the war started, then we can figure out when everything changed!
That's easy enough. [sighs] When the Crystal Empire returned, it brought King Sombra back with it.
[voiceover] And it didn't take long for him to force every one of his subjects to fight for him against Equestria.
[voiceover] And even with Princess Celestia leadin' the charge, it still takes every last pony in Equestria doin' their part, workin' day and night, to keep up the fight.
I just can't believe it! We stopped King Sombra! You and me and all of our friends!
But we aren't friends. At least not here.
Right.
Look. I hope all this helped, but I really need to get back to cannin' those apples.
Thank you. We're going to set things right.
[sighs] I hope you do.
So... how are we gonna set things right?
I don't know! The only thing we know for sure is that Starlight stopped the rainboom.
And that the map's still here.
[gasps] Spike, that's it! The map is connected to the Tree of Harmony! It must sense that something isn't right! That's why it's still here! I'll just use Starlight's version of the spell and go back a little earlier and stop her before she even knows we're there!
All we have to do now is find Starlight and—
Well, finding her will be easy! But stopping her's gonna be harder than you think. Sorry to disappoint you, but I created that spell to send myself back in time. So even when you cast it, I still get sent back here. It wasn't difficult to change Star Swirl's spell. He'd already done the hard part. But figuring out I could use the map to go to any time or place and pull you along with me? [short laugh] I even impressed myself with that. I knew you'd try to stop me. You're so predictable. Why else would I leave the scroll behind? Touching it triggered the map to whisk you here and watch me erase the one thing that linked you with your friends! My village was a sanctuary of equality, where nopony's cutie mark allowed them to feel superior! It was a special place, and you and your friends took it away!
Now it's my turn to take something special from you! Without the rainboom, you and your friends will never form your special cutie mark bonds! Cutie marks for cutie marks! Sounds like a fair trade to me!
Twiliiiiiiight!
Oops!
[screaming] Thanks!
No problem, Spike. At least now we know exactly what we have to do!
Okay, keep your eyes peeled.
Right!
We have to stop Starlight as soon as Rainbow Dash and those bullies race by!
Um, Twilight?
So be ready.
I know, but—
Because she could pop up anywhere!
Like over there?
Just remember how you'd feel if someone said those things to you.
What's going on here?
Oh, I was just reminding these two colts how hurtful teasing can be.
Well, don't!
Young "Dumb-Bell" Huh?
Huh?
I mean... you were?
Of course! In a world where everypony is unique, some are bound to feel more special than others. But that isn't a license to be cruel, is it?
No, of course not...
Oh, isn't it a shame we don't live in a world where everypony is equal? No one would ever tease anyone there! Wouldn't that be nice?
Young "Dumb-Bell", Mm-hmm.
No, it wouldn't! I mean, it'd be nice not to be teased, of course, but that's not the same thing!
Come on, Fluttershy. Maybe I can help you get through the course this time.
Well, I-I sure could use the practice...
I know you only convinced those bullies to not tease Fluttershy to stop the rainboom!
Oh, that's not true. I convinced them not to be bullies because everypony should be equal. Stopping the rainboom is just a bonus.
Look!
This isn't over yet!
If you say so!
Hi!
Um... hi?
You think you can stop for a minute?
Sure.
I hear you're pretty fast!
Pretty fast? Please! I'm even faster than that!
Okay, so, um, hey, you want to race?
Um, that wouldn't really be fair. I mean, you're a full-grown pony, and... Wait. Are you an Alicorn?
Come on, I thought you were fast!
Uh, actually, I just remembered I have somewhere I need to be.
Okay, listen. You don't have to race me. I just need you to fly fast enough for a sonic rainboom!
What?! I can't do that! Nopony can! It's not even a real thing! It's just an old mare's tale!
But it's not! I know it's not! I've seen you do it! In the future!
Ooookay... I'm gonna go now.
No! Wait!
Gee, Twilight, what's the matter? Couldn't convince her to do the impossible? That's too bad.
Ugh. Well, that didn't work.
This is gonna be harder than I thought. We'll have to try again!
Hey, Twilight?
I don't want to live in that awful future we saw!
I don't think you'll have to!
Pinkie? Fluttershy?
Silence, changeling!
All servants of Queen Chrysalis found in these woods must be... destroyed!
Starlight Glimmer?
I was sure I saw her, Spike!
Welcome home, Twilight!
We traveled back in time to when Rainbow Dash performed her first sonic rainboom?
Without the rainboom, you and your friends will never form your special cutie mark bond!
But whatever Starlight did in the past changed things here!
I don't want to live in that awful future we saw!
I don't think you'll have to.
All servants of Queen Chrysalis found in these woods must be... destroyed!
Wait! We're not changelings! I'm a pony! And he's a dragon!
A likely story! Do something dragonish!
[wheezes] That works!
The servants of Chrysalis will do anything to save their evil skins!
Stop! If they are changelings we'll soon see. Though I think they're not what they appear to be.
Zecora! Please, you have to listen.
Beneath this salve, no changeling hides, for it reveals the truth inside.
What does it mean?
The meaning is far worse, I see, for it is we who should not be.
I think I can explain.
I'm sure you can, but let's not talk here. Chrysalis and her army will soon draw near!
The changelings took over not long ago. Though I'll wager in your world that isn't so.
Chrysalis and her army tried to take over Canterlot, but my friends and I stopped her.
Those friends as you know them are not here, alas. But tell me how all this came to pass.
Starlight Glimmer, a pony who traveled back in time to stop my friends and me from ever coming together!
And it is these friends you have in life that keep Equestria free from strife?
I guess so. But this is the second time I've come back and this world is even worse than the last one! If Starlight keeps doing the same thing in the past, how could the present be so different?
Ah. Time is a river, where even the tiniest changes seen can lead to a cascade of effects downstream.
This part of the forest is dark and damp, but it's done well to hide our camp.
This is cozy.
[shrieks] Please! You have to help us!
The changelings attacked Ponyville! We barely escaped with our lives!
The only changeling attack I see is the one that come here looking for me!
[laughs] What a lovely village you've chosen to stage your little resistance. It looks absolutely delicious! [slurping] Oh, come now, Zecora. You're vastly outnumbered.
I know you don't want your charges hurt. Come quietly to the dungeons of Canterlot and I promise to leave the others alone.
Why would she ever trust you?!
Even if there's a chance Chrysalis will honor her word, shouldn't you try?
[hushed] Race to the map while we hold off their attack. Stop Starlight and put the whole world back on track!
Time to make a decision, Zecora!
Not bad, but it's gonna take a lot more than that!
Lucky for you, there's more where that came from!
You've really gotta work on your aim.
What are you doing? You have to finish your race!
No way! This is way more exciting!
See? You can't stop me no matter what you do.
Aw, man.
That's strange.
Well, you obviously don't mean us falling, because that's becoming pretty routine.
No, it's just the other times we've come back, it's been day! But look!
Why would the map bring us back to a different time of day than when we left?
Um, maybe we should figure it out later!
[gasps] The Castle of the Two Sisters!
Well, don't just stand here!
This place looks a lot cleaner than I remember.
Rarity?
The castle isn't open for viewings today. The tapestries all need changing. Again.
Rarity, it's me!
I don't socialize with dragons. I don't know anypony who would.
Rarity, you have to listen to me! The future of Equestria's at stake!
I don't know how you know my name, but I am far too busy to entertain some tourist's ridiculous fantasies.
I have to get back to the map so I can stop Starlight from changing the past, because every present I come to is worse than the last!
Time travel, you say? Now that's something I would like to see.
[laughing] Tell me how you came by this magic to travel through time.
The princess asked you a question! And unless you wanna end up in the dungeon, you'll tell her what she wants to know!
Nopony in my kingdom but me should possess a magic powerful enough to change time.
Your kingdom?
Who else?
Um... Celestia, of course!
[laughing] My sister has been imprisoned in the moon for years! But it is no less a fate than she'd sentence me to! Now, reveal to me the source of this time magic!
...Alright.
Twilight, no!
We have no choice, Spike. [to Nightmare Moon] I can take you to it, but you'll have to get past the timberwolves.
I am the ruler of all of Equestria. Do you think I can't deal with timberwolves?
No. I know you can.
And if you were thinking of trying to escape...
...it would be very unfortunate for your friend.
How does it work?
A pony from my time used this spell to travel back and change the past.
And now you will give this spell to me! With it, I will ensure that the Elements of Harmony are never found and my reign lasts forever!
But it won't.
What?!
In my world, my friends and I found the Elements and used them to defeat you! And I will do everything in my power to bring that world back!
No!
Noooooo!
Now more than ever I know how important it is to stop you!
Well, good luck!
Whoooaaaa!
Up for another race-ending fight, Twilight?
No. You were right. I can't stop you.
But you can't stop me from trying, and we could be stuck doing this for all eternity!
If that's what it takes to keep you and your friends from getting your cutie mark connection, then I'm game!
What you're doing goes way beyond cutie marks! Everything we do here in the past – even the smallest change – can snowball into an avalanche of trouble for the future!
Oh, next I suppose you'll tell me that "the fate of all of Equestria hangs in the balance"!
It does!
Spare me your overblown ego! No group of friends, not even Princess Twilight's, is that important!
Aaaaaaah!
I don't know how important other ponies' friendships are to the future, but I can show you what the world is like without mine!
Where are we?!
The future. Or rather, the present.
But there's nothing here!
I wish I could say I was surprised. But every world I come back to is worse than the last. I don't know why my friends and I are so important to Equestria, but we are.
I don't believe you!
Come on, Starlight, look around!
Like I said, everything in the past affects the future, even the tiniest act. And what you're doing leads here. I know I can't stop you, but I thought showing you this might change your mind.
Change my mind? You don't know anything about me! I was perfectly happy before you and your friends ruined what I built!
I don't know what happened that led you to make your village without cutie marks, and I'm sorry my friends and I had to take it away.
You want to know what happened to me?! I'll show you!
Where are we?
That map of yours is connected to every part of Equestria, and this part is my home.
Sunburst and I did everything together. In fact, I don't remember us ever being apart. Until today.
And just like that, my friend was gone. His family recognized his magical talent and sent him off to Canterlot. I never saw him again.
Well, why not?
Because of his cutie mark! He got his, and I didn't! He moved on, and I didn't! I stayed here and never made another friend because I was too afraid another cutie mark would take them away, too!
That's ridiculous. A cutie mark can't take your friends away.
Not everypony's lucky enough to get her cutie mark at the same time as her friends!
You don't know what it's like to lose a friend because of a cutie mark. But once I stop the rainboom, you will!
And when I destroy this scroll, there'll be no way for you to change it!
Starlight, you're right! I don't know what you went through! But I do know you can't do this! I've seen where this leads, and so have you!
I only saw what you showed me! Who knows what'll really happen?
I've seen it a dozen times! Things don't turn out well in Equestria without my friends!
Ugh! What's so special about your friends?! How can a group of ponies that are so different be so important?!
The differences between me and my friends are the very things that make our friendship strong!
I thought Sunburst and I were the same. But we turned out different, and it tore our friendship apart!
So try again! Make new friends! And if something that you can't control happens that changes things, work through it together! That's what friendship is! And it's not just my friendships that are important to Equestria! Everypony's are! When yours ended, it led us here. But just imagine all the others that are out there waiting for you if you just give them a chance!
How do I know they won't all end the same way?
I guess it's up to you to make sure they don't.
[kissing] One Castle of Friendship – check!
What in Equestria was that?!
Is everypony okay?
[squeals] Can you do it again?
One group of amazing friends – check!
Yeah, Spike. It looks like we're home!
Uh... what's she doin' here?
Actually, it's kind of a long story.
I mean, I knew my rainboom was awesome, but I never thought all of Equestria depended on it!
Or on us!
I think it's more than that. Friendship connects all of Equestria, and undoing one group of friends made its magic less powerful.
I can't believe y'all were able to travel through time like that.
That Starlight must be pretty magical!
She obviously has more talent for magic than almost anypony I've seen. My magic couldn't stop her. I had to convince her to stop on her own. Once I realized that, everything fell into place.
But if she's as powerful as all that, we can't just send her on her way, can we?
Actually, I kind of have something else in mind.
[gulps, exhales] I know there's no excuse for what I did, but I want you all to know that I'm ready for whatever punishment you think is fair.
I've been thinking a lot about how badly Equestria fared without just one group of friends. Because even when one friendship dies, the results can be disastrous.
I know first-hoof how true that can be.
And that's why I've asked you here. If you're willing to learn, I'm willing to teach you what I know. You'll have the power to make Equestria an even better place.
[hushed] How do I start?
Starting is easy! All you have to do is make a friend! And you've got seven of them right here.
I never thought that I would find a place To step right in and start again I never thought that I could just begin Right where I left off and make a friend
Don't ever think that it might be too late You don't have to wait, there's no mistakes with the friends you make A friendship's only made of what you bring And if you do it right, you can do anything
Just use your eyes This time, no lies Just don't disguise Who you are inside
Because your friends are always there for you You don't have to be the same for friendship to be true Because your friends are always there for you Around the world, it's still the same Together you have more to gain There's nothing that a friend won't do
Everywhere you go Friendship there will grow When you find it, it's the key Friends can change the world, you see
Everywhere you go Friendship there will grow When you find it, it's the key Friends can change the world (ah-ah) Friends can change the world (ah-ah) Friends can change the world, you see
[sighs] Okay. Library... Library... Where did they put the library?
[sighs] This castle looked a lot smaller from the outside.
[muffled] Morning, Starlight!
Whoops!
Sorry, Spike! I guess I'm still trying to find my way around. You don't happen to know where the library is, do you?
[muffled] Next door on the left!
Oh. Thanks!
Acceptance, mm-hmm. Altruism, definitely. Starlight, good morning, come in!
Sorry I'm late. I got a little turned around. I still can't believe you're letting me stay here... as your pupil... after everything I did.
Well, I'm not one to dwell on the past, and neither should you. The castle is your home now, and as far as being my pupil goes, I was just trying to figure out what your first friendship lesson should be!
Oh, well, it looks like you're really narrowing it down!
Oh, these are just the A's. After this, I move on to the B's!
I know I'm just learning about friendship, but I didn't think there were this many lessons for anything. How do we choose?
Maybe I should pare things down a bit before we go through them. Why don't you join the others in the throne room? They're planning our trip to the Crystal Empire when Shining Armor and Princess Cadance have their baby!
Well, I think we should leave ASAP. I don't want to miss the Crystalling!
But, um, shouldn't we wait for the invitation?
Frankly, I'm not exactly clear on all the customs and traditions of the Crystal Empire, especially when it comes to a Crystalling.
What's a Crystalling?
Well, that's just it, darling. Princess Cadance and Shining Armor's baby is due any day, and we're still not sure. The Crystal Empire was gone for a thousand years. A lot of their customs are a bit murky.
We know it's got somethin' to do with the new baby.
[quickly] And a party!
And the Crystal Heart.
[quickly] And a party!
And some kinda cool energy.
And... a party!
It's not hard to understand. Most things in the Crystal Empire aren't. Like how I'm a big hero there, for example!
Eh... plus, I've had to help Twilight do a lot of research on Crystallings. Whenever a baby is born in the Crystal Empire, the parents bring it before the Crystal Heart. They get the purest shard of crystal they can find, then pick a crystaller to present the baby to everypony who comes. Then they all share the light and joy they feel, feeding it into the crystal that joins with the Heart, and increases its power! And this is going to be a royal Crystalling, so pretty much the whole empire will show up. That hasn't happened in a millennia!
What do you mean it increases the Crystal Heart's power?
The energy it uses to protect the Crystal Empire, I guess.
Protect it from what?
I... didn't help Twilight with that part.
Hey, Twilight, can I ask you something about the Crystal Empire?
Huh! Funny you should mention it. Because I just narrowed your first friendship lesson down to three options, and one of them is in the Crystal Empire!
Really?
I found out that's where the first pony you ever cared about lives!
Sunburst?
Of course, that's just one idea. We could also go to Griffonstone. [begins fading out] Making friends with a griffon is a challenge all by itself! Or we could tag along with the CMC's the next time they try to help a pony figure out why they're special...
[normal] Starlight? Is something wrong?
What? O-Oh, no, heh, those all sound great!
I know! I guess you were right – it is gonna be hard to choose one!
[laughs nervously] ...Yeah.
Ugh! I am never gonna find my way around this place!
Gee, Starlight, what's wrong?
I don't know, Spike. Twilight's figuring out what my first friendship lesson is, and I guess I'm not exactly thrilled with the options. Well... with one of them.
Which one?
Reuniting me with my first friend.
What's so terrible about that?
[sighs] [narrating] When we were foals, Sunburst knew everything there was to know about magic. He always knew just what to do. And he was always there to help me. I guess it's not surprising that Sunburst got his cutie mark in magic and... went off to Princess Celestia's school. But when he left...
You blamed cutie marks and stripped a whole village of theirs, and when Twilight and the others stopped you, you went back in time and almost destroyed Equestria.
Not really stuff I'm super eager to tell Sunburst about. I mean, he's probably some big important wizard now, and... I can't even find my way around Twilight's castle.
Well, if Sunburst is that good at magic, maybe he'd appreciate your, uh... [clears throat] exploits. You should talk to Twilight about it. I'm sure she'd want to hear what you have to say.
I know. But I don't want her to think I'm not ready to learn or that I'm not grateful for everything she's doing.
Spike! Come quick!
It's a Crystalling invitation!
Shining Armor's a father! I'm an aunt! Well, this settles it! Since we're going to the Crystal Empire, your first friendship lesson is going to be... reuniting with Sunburst!
Great...
[yawn] Um, Applejack, what is that?
Oh, just a little somethin' for the young'un. Made from genuine Sweet Apple Acres apple trees. We make 'em for all the Apples, and anypony related to Twilight is practically family.
Yeah, it's okay... But it's no Cloudsdale mobile! Bam!
Ooh!
Pretty!
Well, a mobile is real nice... as long as you have somethin' to lay in so you can look at it.
And a fetching blanket to keep you warm.
I'm sure Shining Armor and Princess Cadance will love all our gifts. But I think they're more happy we'll be attending the baby's Crystalling.
Ooh! I can't wait to see all that light and love make the Crystal Heart even more sparkly and shiny!
Actually, Pinkie, the Crystal Heart is an ancient and powerful relic. Without its magic, the Crystal Empire would be lost to the Frozen North.
Wow, this Crystalling sounds pretty important. I'd understand if you wanted to... you know... wait to do a different friendship lesson when we get back.
Are you kidding? This trip is perfect! Not only do I get to see the baby and take part in the ceremony that helps maintain the magic of the Crystal Empire, but I'm starting my new pupil off with the most amazing friendship lesson ever! I can't wait!
Right... Me neither... [beat] Actually, Twilight, I am a little worried about meeting Sunburst.
Oh, trust me. I know what it's like to see old friends. But I'll be right there to help things along. I've broken the whole lesson down into a few easy steps to ensure this reunion goes off without a hitch!
[reading] Step one, head to Sunburst's house and get you two started on the right hoof. Step two, get to the castle with enough time to visit the ba—
[gasps] Shining Armor!
[tired] Twilight...!
I didn't know you were meeting us!
[tired] Of course I am! It's me, right here. Here I am. Why wouldn't I come meet my sister? Though we have met before, heh-heh...
Are you all right?
[tired] Never better! Being a father is amazing! And wonderful, and amazing, and confusing, and amazing, but surprising too, you know? I mean, not that you'd know. You wouldn't know, I know... You know? [beat] Sorry. I haven't really slept since Cadance had the baby. Come to think of it, she hasn't either. It sure would be great to get a break.
Oh, of course! I don't know what I was thinking! You two probably need all kinds of help! I'm sorry, Starlight, but I guess combining your first lesson with this visit wasn't such a good idea.
Oh, uh, don't be ridiculous! You're an aunt now! That's way more important than some friendship lesson.
I just wish there was a way to do both.
Maybe there is! You've already done the work for Starlight's lesson with this list. All we have to do is follow it!
Spike, you're a genius!
[through nervous laugh] Yeah... [through gritted teeth] genius.
Then it's settled! Shining Armor and I will head straight to the castle, and you two can head straight to Sunburst's!
Aye-aye, Princess!
[nervously] Uh-huh.
Alright, big brother, let's go see this amazing baby pony!
[snoring] Ahhh... the baby...
I know you're a little worried about this reunion, but I'm sure Twilight's got everything covered.
Everything except how I'd rather do absolutely anything else.
Oh, I bet she's taken that into account too. It's all part of the lesson. Trust the lesson.
Right... [beat] Hey, i-is that... you?
Oh, yep, it sure is! Now, according to the list, Sunburst's house is—
Why is there a statue of you in the Crystal Empire?
"Scarlet Heart": Because Spike the Brave and Glorious saved all of us from King Sombra!
"Amber Laurel": And then again during the Equestria Games!
Really?
"Golden Väs": Really! [to Spike] Big fan.
Um, when were you going to tell me about this?
Nah, it's no big deal.
It most certainly is!
That's it! We're not going anywhere until I get the whole story!
Before we go in, I should probably tell you. Seeing the baby might be a bit of a shock.
Of course, I could be wrong.
The baby is an Alicorn?!
[tired] It looks that way.
But... But... But I thought Alicorn wings had to be earned by accomplishing some great, princess-worthy deed!
Yeah. How can you just be born with 'em?
The birth of an Alicorn is something Equestria has never seen!
It is beyond even our understanding.
[hushed] That's not very reassuring.
Wow! A unicorn, and a Pegasus! So she could be a super-strong flyer and have crazy baby magic!
Well, I know all about super-strong flying!
And I can help keep tabs on her magic!
It appears her magic is more powerful than that of a newborn unicorn!
The crowds have already started to gather.
[inhales] [blows balloon] This Crystalling is gonna be some party!
Do you think we should call it off?
Um, we've all faced a lot worse than baby magic.
I can't imagine cancelling such a beautiful and important ceremony over something so potentially adorable!
In light of the little one's abilities, this Crystalling might be more important than ever. [to Cadance] Perhaps you should address your subjects and remind them of that.
Shining Armor! Do you have everything you need for the ceremony?
[tired] Huh? Oh, no! I still have to interview the honor guards, choose the purity crystal, and pick a crystaller!
Alright, take it easy. Pinkie can stay here with me and keep an eye on the baby.
And we'll all help you with everythin' else.
[snores] ...baby...
That is, if you can stay awake long enough to tell us how.
...and that's how we found the Crystal Heart, defeated King Sombra, and saved the Empire.
"Cloudy Spinel": We love you, Spike!
"Coral Shores": Yeah. Tell the one about the Equestria Games!
Well, as much as I love reliving my heroic deeds, Starlight and I have an important lesson to do, by order of the Princess of Friendship!
Awwww!
Aw, come on, Spike! I want to hear about the Games too!
I know you're nervous about seeing Sunburst, but it says right in step 3, to, uh, "Deal with your fears by facing them, not by putting it off."
Ugh. Let's go get this over with.
Wait!
Huh? What?!
Knocking on the door isn't the next thing on the list!
Seriously?
I know Twilight can be a little nitpicky, but this is your first lesson as her pupil, and it's important that we do it right!
Fine. What's the next thing on the list?
[clears throat] [reading] "Before they see each other, be sure to highlight the importance of the meeting."
I'm pretty sure we can skip that.
I don't know... I mean if we skip it, the whole lesson could go south! And then you might end up taking a giant step backwards instead of forwards! Maybe you'll never be able to learn anything about friendship at all! It's almost like your whole future depends on this moment. [beat] "Highlight the importance of the meeting" – check! I can't believe you wanted to skip that!
Sunburst?
Yes? What can I do for you?
It's... It's me, Starlight. We used to be friends?
[beat] Oh, of course! S-Starlight! My goodness, it-it's been a long time! What, uh, what have you been up to?
Me? Oh! You know, some of this, some of that, different... stuff. Right now, I'm sort of Twilight Sparkle's new pupil.
The Princess of Friendship?
Heh... yeah... that's actually kind of why I'm here. I mean, I know you're probably very busy.
What do you mean?
Well, I figured after magic school, you'd go on to do important wizard work, but...
Oh. No. Y-Yes! Uh, y-yes, that's me, yup. [nervous chuckle] Important wizard! Really busy with lots of, uh, wi-wizarding... stuff. [beat] Right. Uh, well... good to see you.
Huh. Maybe we should have skipped highlighting the importance of the meeting after all.
Well, I guess that's that!
Starlight, come on! We have to at least explain what Twilight wants!
[tired, amplified] Dearest citizens, I am sure you are all just as thrilled and ready for this Crystalling as myself and Shining Armor.
[panicked breathing] I'm not ready!
Take it easy! Just pick whoever looks the most like honor guard material.
Right... right.
I'm sorry. Fatherhood is way more stressful than I ever thought.
I can only imagine.
Now, I know choosing the crystal of purity is a very important decision. So I have gone through the trouble of arranging them in order from incredibly pure to outrageously pure.
Um, Rarity, don't they all sort of look the same?
Oh, well, to the untrained eye, perhaps. What do you think, Shining Armor?
[incoherent stammering] I don't know!
[hushed] I hope Twilight and Pinkie are having better luck with the baby!
Well... at least she's having... fun!
Whee!
Pinkie, hold her still!
I'm tryiiiiiiing!
So... the Princess of Friendship wants you and I to be friends again?
Heh, I know. Weird, right?
Uh, I don't understand. Did something happen to you after I left for magic school?
What?
No! I-I don't see what that has to do with anything. W-Why would you even ask that?
I mean, did something happen to you after you left for magic school?
What? Um, no. L-Like you said, I'm a, [clears throat] i-important wizard.
I'm sure there's something on Twilight's list that can help here.
Okay. I chose the honor guard, picked the purity crystal, and I know exactly who I want to be our crystaller. So, all we need is...
The baby?
We're here!
She's a really strong flyer!
I'm guessin' that's gonna make it harder to do the Crystalling.
It's worse than that. Without the Heart, the Crystal Empire's about to be buried under a mountain of ice and snow!
I still can't believe you're letting me stay here... as your pupil.
Shining Armor's a father! I'm an aunt!
Your first friendship lesson is going to be... reuniting with Sunburst!
Uh, y-yes, that's me, yup. [nervous chuckle] Important wizard!
The baby is an Alicorn?!
So she could be a super-strong flyer and have crazy baby magic!
Without the Heart, the Crystal Empire's about to be buried under a mountain of ice and snow!
So... not only can we not take part in a fabulous ancient ceremony, but we're also about to be frozen solid!
Without the Crystal Heart's magical protection, the entire city's about to become a winter wasteland!
But what about when King Sombra ruled the Crystal Empire and the Crystal Heart was missin'? The city wasn't covered in snow then!
The Heart wasn't missing. It was still in the castle. King Sombra had just hidden it.
I'm afraid Twilight is correct, and the storm clouds are already forming.
I can totally fly up there and bust those puppies! No problem!
I wouldn't advise it, Rainbow Dash. Those storm clouds are not like the ones you know.
This far north, the weather has a will of its own, and now it will only grow stronger, enveloping everything in its path.
Including the Crystal Empire!
And us along with it!
There's gotta be somethin'...
I know Princess Twilight is keen on the two of us rekindling our friendship, but... it's been so long. I don't see how anything on that list is going to help.
I know, right? It's not like there's some spell that would magically compel us to pick up where we left off.
Well, actually, there's several. Mistmane's Material Amity, Rockhoof's Rapport, Flash Prance's Fellow... ship... [ahem] But I-I get the feeling the princess isn't looking for a spell.
[chuckle] Definitely not.
Got it! [reading] "And if all else fails, ask them to share an embarrassing moment from their past, maybe even something they regret!"
Uh, I don't see how that would help.
Uh, yeah! We should just get out of your mane. It's pretty obvious this isn't going how Twilight hoped, and I'm sure you have plenty of important work to do...
What? Oh! Right, yes, heh-heh! Uh, no rest for the wizardly.
Come on, Spike.
There must be a spell that can restore the Crystal Heart!
Perhaps.
But it isn't something that either of us know.
The library here at the castle is nearly as extensive as the one in Canterlot. There's a good chance we can find something there!
Can you hold off the storm?
Yes, for a time, but even our magic will eventually succumb to the power of the Frozen North.
We will do what we can, but you must hurry.
I don't know how long it will take to find the right spell, but you should probably tell the crowd outside to get somewhere warm!
And try not to mention the Crystal Heart. We don't want to start a panic.
Yes, ma'am. C'mon, girls!
I'm gonna need all of your help. The crystal library is enormous!
You can count on us, Twily!
Where'd she go?!
This way!
Well, Spike, looks like my biggest fears came true. I wouldn't be surprised if Twilight decides to give up on me entirely.
It's not the list, Spike. Or you. Or Twilight. I'm the one Sunburst doesn't want to be friends with.
I don't remember him saying he didn't want to be friends.
He didn't have to say it.
Well, Twilight obviously thinks you're worth being friends with! And I do too!
Thanks, Spike. At least I have two friends, even if one of them has dragon breath.
[exhales] Uh, that's not dragon breath. It's freezing!
Oh, you're right! But I thought the Crystal Heart was supposed to keep the cold weather out.
It is... unless something's happened! Come on!
We're just saying that it might not be the best idea to stay outside!
"Tough Nut": I camped out all night for this spot! I'm not about to just give it up!
Still, when you think about it, the view is just as good a little further back, like... inside your house?
"Scouts Honor": The Crystalling ceremony is one of our most sacred traditions! And when that foal is held before the Crystal Heart, I plan to be as close to the action as possible!
Honestly, I don't know if there's gonna be a Crystallin'. The truth is, the baby's an Alicorn and her magic's plum crazy, so you might not wanna be that close after all.
"Tough Nut": A baby Alicorn? Wow, I can't wait to see that!
"Scouts Honor": Oh, those little wings are probably so cute!
"Mustafa Combe": I know, right?
Look, I am a hundred percent sure the Crystalling isn't happening.
"Mustafa Combe": No Crystalling, huh? Then why are they starting the fireworks show?
Young filly... come back here!
Come to your Auntie Pinkie Pie!
Bridle Buck's Boat Chants, Hayhoof's Intonements, Mystic Maps and Mazes... [groans] Anything up there?
Not yet! I'm not even sure how these are organized!
Shining Armor, I thought you were taking care of the baby!
I'm trying!
Whoo!
Gotcha!
Oh! Or not...
Whoa!
What is going on?!
You want the long or the short version?
Short?
[quickly] The baby's an Alicorn and she accidentally destroyed the Crystal Heart, so Twilight and Cadance are looking for a spell to put it back together and save the Crystal Empire from turning into a giant wasteland of ice and snow.
Oh.
[gasps] What about this? Trotter's Tome of Reliquary?
I think this is it!
[reading] "Spell of Relic Reconstitution"! I can't believe we found it!
It's a good thing, too! Without this, I don't know what we'd do!
Oops.
That spell was the only thing we found in the whole library that was even close to what we needed!
I'm so sorry, Twilight!
It's not your fault, Starlight. None of us were expecting any of this.
Do you think you can remember the spell?
I only read it through once!
Well, if anypony can exactly remember something she read for the first time two minutes ago, it's you, Twilight.
I'll try. But I'm not sure how long it'll take.
Is quickly an option?
I'll help if I can, but we should evacuate the city just in case! You need to lead everypony to the train station before the tracks freeze over!
We will. But between you and Twilight, I'm sure you'll remember the spell.
I only hope this spell is the one we need.
Is there anything I can do?
I don't think so. I'm just sorry about your lesson.
Oh, that doesn't matter now. Sunburst and I don't have anything in common anyway. He's a big important wizard! And I'm re-learning everything I ever thought I knew.
Sunburst? I don't recognize the name, but if he's an important wizard, you should bring him here. Maybe he'll know what to do if the spell fails.
[gasps] Of course!
You better go with her, Spike.
[straining] Sunburst! Haven't you looked outside?!
Snow? That's... not right. The Crystal Heart—
Is gone! The baby – Shining Armor and Cadance's baby – it's an Alicorn!
Really?
Really! And her magic is a little berserk, and well, I guess she destroyed the Heart! But Twilight thinks she can fix it and Princess Cadance thought you could help!
Me?
Of course! You're an important wizard in the Crystal Empire! It just makes sense!
Right... right... right right right. You know, I'd like to help, I-I really would. I-I just have so much, um, important wizard work to do around here.
Huh?!
You can't stay here!
"Mustafa Combe": Did I mention this was a Royal Crystalling? When the crystaller holds the young one aloft, all of the Empire will share their joy and light, and the Crystal Heart will beat stronger than it ever has before!
"Scouts Honor": It really is a moving ceremony!
I really don't think it's going to happen.
Come on, it's freezing out here!
"Tough Nut": Uh, this is the Crystal Empire. We've seen snow before.
Not like this! We don't have time to argue! Princess Cadance has decided to evacuate the city!
"Mustafa Combe": But the Crystalling...!
I don't know if we'll ever have another Crystalling again! The Crystal Heart... is shattered.
"Tough Nut": It's not safe here!
[groan] That's what we've been tryin' to tell you!
Sunburst, I know you're busy, but did you hear what I said?
Oh, I heard you, but-but like I said, when you're an important wizard, the work just piles up.
Sunburst!
[sighs] Look, Starlight, I want to help. I do. But I can't. I wish I could.
What do you mean?!
Fixing an ancient relic? I-I can't even come close to doing something like that!
But I thought you were an important wizard!
Well, you were wrong, okay?! I'm not an important wizard! I'm not even a wizard at all!
I know it's hard for you to understand, but not all of us end up achieving greatness.
What? Why wouldn't I understand that?
Really? You're the protégé of the Princess of Friendship! I don't think she picks just anypony for that!
Technically, she's more of a student than a protégé.
Whatever. I'm sorry I'm not the big important wizard you were expecting.
Sunburst, I don't care if you're a wizard or not. I'm just surprised. You always knew so much about magic. I mean, look at all these books!
Yeah, well, reading about magic is one thing, but you don't know what it was like at magic school! To know so much and not be able to do any of it!
Well, you don't know what it was like to be left behind! And then getting so bitter that you steal the cutie marks from an entire village and then get defeated by Twilight and her friends, so you travel through time to get back at them, but they beat you again and teach you about friendship, but you're so terrified ponies will find out what you did that you can't make any friends!
Did you really travel through time?
See? I told you he'd be impressed.
I'm sorry we lost touch. Maybe if I had reached out, you could have helped me at magic school, and I could have helped you to...
Not become totally evil? [sighs] Let's just say I know what it's like to have something you're not exactly proud of.
When you showed up thinking I was some big wizard... I'm sorry. I should have told you the truth.
It's fine. At least we worked it all out. I think Twilight would be proud of us.
Well, if you ever want to tell her about it, we should probably leave now!
[gasps] I forgot to tell you! They're evacuating the city! You need to get to the train station, unless you've got a spell here that will drive back the Frozen North and fix the Crystal Heart so the baby can have her Crystalling?
Crystalling...! Of course!
Push them back, my sister!
This way!
Ugh!
Just a little bit further, y'all! The station's just ahead!
We have to go back!
I know how to stop this!
Uh, I think that's everything?
It looks right to me, but... there's only one way to find out!
The spell failed. I don't know what else to do.
An old student of mine believes he does.
The baby did this?!
I tried putting it back together with—
The spell of Relic Reconstitution. No, that won't do it. The Crystal Heart's been around for millennia. Restoring a relic like this is way beyond one spell. You need to combine it with something else. Something unique to the relic itself. Something that strengthens it and provides it with power...?
The Crystalling!
Combining that spell with the light and love of everypony gathered for the ceremony, together with... Somnambula's Weather Abjuration to clear away the snow... and a little Fledgling's Forbearance for the parents... Heh. That should curb the little one's power fluctuations.
You must be Sunburst. Starlight said you were a powerful wizard.
Oh, I'm no wizard.
What?
But he studied magic his whole life! You should see his house! And since nopony has any better ideas, what do we have to lose?!
I had planned on asking Twilight to be our crystaller, but since it seems like she'll be busy...
I'd be honored!
Well, what are we waiting for?!
Citizens! May I present the newest member of the Crystal Empire!
"Mustafa Combe": She's beautiful!
"Scouts Honor": Oh! It's just so moving!
"Tough Nut": Best Crystalling ever!
For a pony who isn't great at magic, you did pretty well.
Indeed. I'm glad to see you've found a way to share your unique gift, Sunburst. You may be more of a wizard than you think.
You would not believe the crazy weather that delayed our train. Came out of nowhere.
But it was all worth it to see this peaceful little angel! Awww, so sweet! Come to your grandmare!
Yeah, peaceful now, anyway.
I suppose that spell really did the trick!
We have Sunburst to thank for that.
I hope he takes his role as crystaller seriously. Something tells me the baby will need a pony like him to look to for magical advice.
Cadance, darling, aren't we gonna name the poor little dear, or are we gonna spend our entire visit just calling her "the baby"?
We were thinking... "Flurry Heart".
You know, to remember the occasion.
Oh, goodness, how could anypony forget?
Well, I think you're the Crystal Empire's big important wizard, whether you like it or not.
I don't know if I'll have time for any wizarding. I'm a crystaller now. That's a big responsibility.
I can't think of anypony more qualified. Just... promise you'll stay in touch?
Hm, like I'd ever lose touch with my oldest friend.
What's wrong, Twilight?
I don't know, Spike. I think I have a lot to learn about being a teacher.
What are you talking about? Your lesson went perfectly! Starlight and Sunburst got over their past and rekindled their friendship!
No thanks to me. I know a lot happened. I just wish I could have given my pupil the attention she deserves.
Well, I know she needed to be put on the right path, but giving her the space to make her own decisions worked pretty well. Isn't that how Celestia taught you?
You know, I never thought about it! But I guess it is!
Maybe you're a better teacher than you thought.
[singsong] We're going to Manehattan, we're going to Manehattan, we're going to Manehattan...!
[nonplussed] Yes, yes, Manehattan, the height of sophistication, elegance, culture... Since my boutique in Canterlot has been doing so nicely, it only makes sense for me to open one there as well.
[squeals] We're almost there! Why doesn't your face look like this?! Eee...
Oh, Pinkie, dear, this is just a business trip for me. I need to scour the city for the most perfect location for my new shop. And while it's lovely how excited you are, there's absolutely no chance of me getting swept into the– [gasps] [suddenly excited] energy, the beauty, the majesty of the greatest city in all of Equestria!
[sighs] This city's simply a-ma-zing! It's just... everything, ever!
And it's about to get everything ever-er! Because guess who I see! M-A-U-D! You know what that spells?
[deadpan] It spells Maud.
Maud, Maud, Maud! Yay!
Oh, you Pie sisters have just about the sweetest family traditions! Every year, you set aside a special day to spend with each of your sisters?
Yep! I do separate trips with each one, and we make it super fun by picking a different location every year! We see the sights all day and then swap gifts at sunset! And since Maud's getting her rocktorate nearby, we figured this would be the perfect spot for PSSSD!
[hushed] Okay, what's the secret?
Huh?
You just said 'pssst'.
No, silly! Not pssst, PSSSD! P-S-S-S-D! Pie Sisters Surprise Swap Day!
Maud!
[deadpan] Boulder promised his cousin a postcard.
Well, I'll just leave you two to your PSSSD. And now, I am off to scout possible locations for my new boutique!
Before you go, can I ask you a quick question?
Oh, of course.
[loudly] Will you please help me?!
[nervously] Only if you let go of my leg and stand up...
Every year, Maud's PSSSD gift always blows mine away! But this year is going to be different! For the first time, I'm finally getting her a gift that's as good as the one she always gets me! There's a specialty store here in Manehattan that sells nothing but rock pouches! A rock pouch would be perfect for Boulder, and I know Maud will love it!
Why, Pinkie, that really is the perfect gift for Maud!
I know, right? Problem is, I still need to buy one, and the store is downtown!
Hmm, and you want to get a pouch for Maud without ruining the surprise... Well, luckily for you, I know exactly what you should do! Why not sight-see on a path that leads right to the pouch store? That way Maud won't get suspicious! I'll come with you to distract Maud, so...
Y-Yes, yes, yes, let's not get too excited until you actually get a pouch for Maud.
Of course. Got it. Absolutely.
[deadpan] Nothing moved him.
Maud! I'm giving you the greatest PSSSD gift in the history of ever!
Oh, what a spectacular view! You really can see everything from here!
[deadpan] Especially the glaciation of the sloping strata. It's breathtaking.
But not half as breathtaking as the gift I'm giving you!
I-It certainly is– [grunts] –cozy... but this simply won't do! Working in a space this small would make me lose my mind!
Just like Maud's gonna lose her mind when she sees the gift I'm giving her!
Whatever you were about to say isn't nearly as good as the gift I'm giving Maud!
[deadpan] You'll be pleased with yours too.
Pinkie, put down that crayon! The Cantering Cook isn't that kind of restaurant!
Oh... A pony could get used to eating at places like this!
[deadpan] I know. It's the only restaurant in the city with nepheline syenite in their bathroom tiles.
[stutters] ...Well, isn't that something! [deliberately] You know what, Pinkie Pie? Uh, maybe you could help me figure out what to order!
[hushed] We're so close to the pouch store! It's just a block away! I could practically smell it from here! If I knew what a pouch store smelled like.
[hushed] Okay, remember the plan. I will stay here and distract Maud while you go get a pouch!
[hushed] Gotcha!
[deliberately] Oh, why, thank you for the kind assistance, Pinkie Pie. And now I know exactly what to order.
[deliberately] You are very welcome, Rarity! Now pardon me whilst I go wash my hooves!
Sorry!
So, Maud... that Boulder of yours is such an interesting... ahem... character. You must tell me, how did the two of you first meet?
[deadpan] It was a dark and stormy night. Little did I know that my life was about to change forever.
[gasps] Look at that hand-stitched ten-thousand-thread-count velvet-lined rock pouch! Maud will love it! I need it!
Ungh! Huh, must be stuck! [reading] "Took a sudden vacation to Canterlot with my grandniece. Back in a few moons." Oh, no. Oh, no-no-no-no-no-no-no! Well, maybe, just maybe, he's already back from vacation and just forgot to take the sign down! [shouting and pounding on door] Hello, Mr. Pouch Store Owner! I'd like to hear all about your sudden vacation in Canterlot with your grandniece while buying a pouch for my sister please!
Miss, the store's clearly closed.
But it can't be. It just can't be! If I can't get that pouch... then not only am I not getting my sister the greatest present in the history of PSSSD, but now I have no PSSSD present for my sister at all!
[deadpan] ...and Boulder's been by my side ever since.
[deadpan] Wow. What a surprisingly suspenseful and compelling story. I completely get what you see in him now. [gasps] Pinkie Pie, you're back! [deliberately] Oh, your hooves must be sparkling clean!
Garçon! One super-deluxe two-mile-high hot fudge sundae, stat!
What happened? Did you get a pouch for Maud? Tell me everything!
Oh, not to worry, dear! I'll just have to help you find a new present for Maud. We have plenty of time before your gift exchange at sunset and all of Manehattan to explore. We're bound to find something Maud would like. Maybe even more than a rock pouch!
You're right! Thanks, Rarity!
Maud, I can't help but notice you're staring at that marvelous giraffe. I was just wondering, any chance you could see yourself with it?
[deadpan] Only if I had a mirror.
Now, Maud, I know you're a big fan of rocks, so get your camera ready, because these are the most spectacular rocks in all of Manehattan! Surely there must be something here that catches your eye.
[deadpan] [hushed] Boulder says they're all too... stuck-up.
[deadpan] I like... that.
What is it? You have to tell me! Was it this bike? This lamp? This grappling hook? What do you like?!
[deadpan] I like that fissure in the sidewalk. It's an elegant example of thermal expansion and soil settlement.
Fissure in thhhhhhhe soil...? What?! But I...! All of this...! And she likes a crack?!
Did she like anything?
[hushed] That sister of yours is simply impossible to shop for! There's nothing she needs or wants!
[deadpan] [calling out] Boulder. Boulder. Where'd you run off to? There you are. Sure wish I had something to carry you around in.
A rock pouch was the perfect gift for Maud! Aw, and I know she would have loved the one I saw in the window! It had double stitching, a red drawstring...
...and ochre-flecked velvet lining with reinforced triple-crosshatched seams?
Yep, that's the pouch. [beat] Wait, how'd you know?
Because I'm looking at one just like it! Maybe if you can catch up with him, you could ask—
Excuse me, sir! I couldn't help but notice your nifty rock pouch! Is there any chance you'd be willing to part with it? I really need it. Like, really really really!
"Street Rat": You, uh, really really need this pouch, huh?
I believe I said really really really.
"Street Rat": Well, you know, pouches like this are really hard to come by these days. But I might be able to part with it for the right price.
So you'll sell it to me? And I'll finally be able to give my sister the perfect Pie Sisters' Surprise Swap Day present? Oh, thank you, thank you, thank you!
"Street Rat": Hmmm. That's one sweet party cannon you got there. Tell you what. I'd be more than happy to give you the pouch for the low, low price of... that cannon.
[gasps] M-My... party cannon...?
"Street Rat": Well, if you really wanna give that sister of yours the perfect present, then you'll have to give up your party cannon. So, what do you say? The pouch for the cannon.
[deadpan] Do you see the exposed chalcedony in the fissure?
Probably?
[despondent] What you guys lookin' at?
Oh, you're back! [to Maud] Darling, I want to get one more picture of you with that astounding fissure in the sidewalk, and the inspiration just struck me for the perfect shot! Uh, be a dear and go stand behind it. Okay, now just, uh, back up a little bit! Little more! And now just a little... uh... twenty yards more! Perfect! Hold that pose! I think we found your new holiday card! [hushed, to Pinkie] So, how did it go? Tell me, tell me, tell me!
[despondent] Well, I got the rock pouch for Maud, and... that's really the only thing that matters.
Oh, I am so glad to hear that! She's going to absolutely love it!
[despondent] Yup.
"Yup"? That's it? You got your sister the greatest PSSSD present in the history of ever, and all you have to say is "yup"?
[despondent] Yup.
But... you're Pinkie Pie. You're supposed to be all [quickly] "Oh, I'm so excited I bought the rock pouch! And I know I say excited a lot when I'm actually just kind of excited, but this time I'm really excited about how excited I am about being this excited over the rock pouch!" [normally] And then you fire off your party cannon. Say, where is your cannon? [gasps] Did you lose it? Is your party cannon lost somewhere in the big city?!
I can clearly see that something's bothering you, and I want to help. But I can't help you unless you tell me what the problem is.
[despondent] Oh, there's no problem. It just turns out that the going rate for a rock pouch in Manehattan is one party cannon. Who knew?
You gave away your cannon?! But, but that party cannon is your everything! You absolutely love that cannon! How could you possibly part with something that means so much to you?!
Well, I finally got Maud a gift that's just as good as the ones she always gets me, and that's all that really matters.
Well, I guess I understand... maybe.
Maud's going to be so excited. I can't wait to see the look on her face when she sees the pouch!
[deadpan] I know, the camera loves Boulder.
After the day we've had, I'm probably looking forward to the swap part of the Pie Sisters' Surprise Swap Day even more than the two of you! [giggles] And I'm not even a Pie sister! I can't wait one more second to see the wonderful gifts you've gotten each other!
Well, you're going to have to. We don't just swap, silly. We always sing the Pie Sisters' Surprise Swap Day Song first! Ready, Maud?
[deadpan] As I'll ever be.
It's the Pie Sisters' Swap Day Sooooooong!
[deadpan] Hey.
[growls] Just open them already!
[deadpan] Thanks.
I knew you'd love it! It was all worth it! Look how happy she is! And I couldn't have done it without you. Thank you, Rarity. Okay! Time to open your present to me! Oh! You did it again! You got me the best present in the history of PSSSD! This is perfect! This is amazing! This is incredible! I love it, I love it, I love it! [beat] What is it?
[deadpan] It's little pieces of cupcake-scented paper. You know, confetti. For your cannon.
You're right, that is impressive. But it's no fissure in the sidewalk.
[deadpan] [to Boulder] Play nice.
Oh, I'm so relieved to see that you like the pouch. Especially considering what Pinkie Pie had to give up for it. [gasps] Oh!
[deadpan] What?
I mean... forget I said that! I'm, I-I-I'm glad to see that you like the pouch. You can remember that part. Just forget the second part. You know, the second part where I said that Pinkie Pie had to give something up— [shrieks] Perhaps I should just stop talking now. Nothing!
Hee-hee, yay! I love my sister and my new confetti!
[deadpan] Why isn't she using her party cannon?
Gahhhh...
[deliberately] Ooh! Wow, look how filthy my hooves are! I really should go wash them!
[deadpan] Where's her cannon?
No, no, stop, stop giving me that look! I can't take it! Nnnnn... [quickly] Pinkie Pie feels bad that the gifts that she always gives you are never as good as the ones that you give her!
[deadpan] What?
That's why she was willing to give up the party cannon for the pouch!
[deadpan] She gave up her party cannon?
Pinkie Pie! You might want to come over here for a second!
I think I know what this is about. You guys wanna ride the swans. Well, there are swan boats, but there are real swans here we can ri—
[deadpan] You gave away your party cannon?
[inhales] She broke me.
Nnngh, it's just... It's just... It's just... You always give better gifts than me! That's why I had to get you the perfect gift! [beat] Are your hooves dirty? Where're you going?!
[deadpan] To get your cannon back.
[deadpan] There.
Yep! That sure is the pony I got the pouch from!
That's amazing! How did you know where he'd be?
[deadpan] Maud Sense.
Runs in the family!
[deadpan] I'd like to return this pouch for my sister's party cannon, please.
"Street Rat": Sorry, missy, all sales are final.
[deadpan] [slightly more forcefully] I'd like to return this pouch for my sister's party cannon, please.
Ooh, I've never seen her like this! Look at the fire in her eyes! You'd better do what she says!
"Street Rat": Fire in her eyes?
Oh! Did she just clench her jaw?! I think she clenched her jaw!
"Street Rat": I didn't see.
Oh, no! When she clenches her jaw... you know what that means?!
"Street Rat": What? What's it mean?
Trust me, you do not want to know!
[deadpan] I'd like to return this pouch.
Maud! I'm so happy you got me my party cannon back! Yay!
Uh-oh. I just realized something. 'Cause you gave back the pouch for my cannon, this is now the second gift you've gotten me today! And it's something I really, really wanted! You did it again! Your gifts are always better than mine! Next year, I'm gonna have to really step it up and—
[deadpan] Pinkie, gift giving isn't a competition. It's an expression of love, and you always make sure to give your gifts with lots of love. That's why I'll always love them, and you, five-ever. That's even longer than for-ever.
Awwww! [to Rarity] There you are! You've sure been washing your hooves for a long time! We've got a train to catch here!
I know, but there is one more sight you two simply must see before we leave.
Voila! Welcome to the future home of "Rarity For You"! What do you think of the place? Is this the right location? Did I pick a good spot?
[deadpan] No. You picked the perfect spot.
You know, I think this might be my favorite PSSSD ever! But I can't wait 'til next year's PSSS-D-W-R!
Wait. PSSS-D-W-R? What's that?
P-S-S-S-D-W-R! It's a new tradition that Maud and I came up with! Pie Sisters' Surprise Swap Day...
[deadpan] With Rarity.
Oh! Ohhh! Why, that's the sweetest... Oh, no. Oh, no-no-no-no-no-no. I know how good you two are at giving gifts! I'm going to have to get you both something amazing, and I only have a year to do it!
Oh, Rarity! It doesn't matter what you get us! As long as you give your gift with love, it'll be perfect!
[sighs] Why, thank you, Pinkie.
Buuuut now that you mention it... I could use more confetti for my party cannon. You wouldn't believe how much of that stuff I go through in a day!
Hear ye, hear ye! The first post-cutie mark meetin' of the Cutie Mark Crusaders is now in session!
Oh! I'm sorry, Apple Bloom. I was distracted by the radiance of my cutie mark... Did you say something?
I mean... it's pretty amazing how the colors just pop off your flank. It's kinda hard to look aw—
Look, I know our cutie marks are amazing, but is that all we're gonna do now? Just spend our days starin' down at our own flanks?
[sighs] I guess not.
Yeah, I suppose that could get real boring...
[wistfully] Yeah... [beat] This is ridiculous! We need to go out and do somethin'!
Wow, you're right!
Yeah, we need to go try new stuff like we used to!
Exactly.
Like square dancing!
Yeah!
And the more things we try, the more chances we'll have to finally get our cutie marks! Come on!
Um... Apple Bloom?
Wow... Did we really only ever do things just to get our cutie marks?
I don't know. Maybe?
Aw, come on! We did lots of stuff that didn't have anything to do with getting a cutie mark.
Of course we did!
Absolutely!
Huh. So now that we don't have to do stuff to get our cutie marks, what is it that the Cutie Mark Crusaders actually do?
We do exactly what we got our cutie marks in!
Helping other ponies!
Ponies without cutie marks!
Or ponies who've forgotten their special purpose!
Exactly! We just have to find ponies who need our help! Come on!
But are you sure you feel content?
Eeyup.
Not even a tinge of dissatisfaction?
Nnnope.
Not even the slightest naggin' sensation that you don't really know what your purpose is in life or why you have a big apple as a cutie mark?
[grunts] [spits] [annoyed] Nnnope.
The important thing to remember is that there is no rush.
The three of us tried for the longest time, but it just comes when it comes!
And it's totally normal to feel confused and maybe even a little lost. But being a blank flank is nothing to be ashamed of.
So if you're having even the slightest problem...
...or concerns or questions...
...we want you to know that we are here to help.
Mrs. I... don't think they're too worried about it yet.
This is gonna be a lot harder than I thought.
Who knew there were so few ponies worried about their cutie marks?
Kinda makes you wonder why we made such a big deal out of it for so long.
What?
The point is, helpin' ponies with cutie mark problems is what makes us special.
But if we can't find anypony with a problem...
...Maybe we're not special.
Yeah! I know exactly what you mean. You can't find a cutie mark problem. I have a cutie mark problem. It's so confusing, and I feel like the solution is staring me right in the muzzle.
What?
I see why you guys hang out here! It's cozy!
[straining] The Crusader Clubhouse is a safe place, Mr... um... Bulk.
A place where we faced all kinds of cutie mark problems!
A place where we'll go on to solve even more! Startin' with yours!
No matter how long it takes!
Or how hard it is!
We'll solve it because that's what we do!
Yeah!
So... what's your cutie mark problem?
Oh, right. Uh, well, my cutie mark is a dumbbell, but I've lifted every dumbbell in Ponyville!
[nervously] Have you tried lifting other things?
You mean, not dumbbells?
Yeah!
Yeah!
Yeah!
Oof! I mean... no. I hadn't thought of that. You guys are awesome!
But... what happens when I run out of other stuff?
...I guess you could teach other ponies to lift things?
Yeah!
Yeah!
Yeah! Wow, you three really have a knack for this!
That was easy!
Maybe too easy.
What do you mean?
Well, it's lookin' like cutie mark problems are few and far between.
And...?
And what if we never find another one?
Well...
And even if we do, we could solve it so quick, it'll be like it never happened in the first place!
So...?
So... then the Cutie Mark Crusaders don't have any reason to exist!
The problem boils down to this – we don't need to go out and do things anymore to get our cutie marks.
Right! And—
Ponies with cutie mark problems are hard to find.
Exactly. But even when we find problems, we're so good at solvin' them that most of the time there's nothin' for the Cutie Mark Crusaders to do. So...
I thought we should start figurin' out ways to search all of Equestria for cutie mark problems!
That kinda seems like a lot.
I don't think Rarity would let me travel to the far reaches of Equestria looking for cutie mark problems.
Yeah, I'm sure we'll come across them in Ponyville. And when we do, we'll totally solve them because we are so awesome at it!
Hoof!
But... what do we do until then?
Maybe whatever we want?
What do you mean?
Well, we used to only do stuff to get our cutie marks or fulfill our destiny, but now we don't have to.
So... we can do things just for fun? Are you girls thinkin' what I'm thinkin'?!
Sure am!
Just remember – stomp, kick, and roll! After this, you two are gonna love scootering as much as me!
If you say so.
Ready? Stomp, kick, and roll! Whooo!
Ta-da!
[nervous laugh] I don't think I did it right.
[blows pitch pipe] Do... Mi... So... It's just a simple harmony.
Harmony, huh?
[tapping with baton] And a-one, and a-two, and a-one two three!
Wow, that was simple!
It's just a dash, and a drop, and a drip!
Just a dash, and a drop, and a drip!
...and even though Scootaloo thinks bungee jumping is the bee's knees...
...Sweetie Belle would rather keep bees.
[spits] Of course, I'm allergic. Who'd've thought it'd be so hard to find somethin' for us all to do together?
Well, I know this might sound crazy, but what if we didn't?
Didn't what?
Do things together. Well, do everything together.
But we're the Cutie Mark Crusaders!
And we always will be! But I really wanna bungee jump! The speed, the height, the fall!
And I know you two aren't interested, but I wanna try crochet.
Isn't there something you've always wanted to do on your own?
I don't know... I guess I figured we'd always do stuff together. But bungee jumping sounds just as scary as crochet sounds borin'.
That's okay. Sweetie Belle and I can do the things we like, and you can do whatever you like!
Just as soon as you figure out what it is.
I guess...
Great! Then we can meet back here and talk all about what we've done!
But I don't know what it'll be.
You'll find something!
Something awesome!
[sighs] Well... I guess now I have to.
I never imagined myself out on my own Tryin' to find out what's next for me The Cutie Mark Crusaders have always been my home Maybe now there's more that I could be
I guess as time goes by Everypony has to go out on their own And maybe someday I'll have to try Somethin' new that's just for me A little somethin' that could be Just my own and I won't feel so left behind
We used to say that we'd be always side by side Maybe things are changin' and this could mean goodbye I always thought our friendship was all I'd ever need We've always been crusadin' – what else is there for me?
I guess as time goes by Everypony has to go out on their own And maybe someday I'll have to try Somethin' new that's just for me A little somethin' that could be Just my own and I won't feel so left behind
[muffled] And one, two, three, four, two, two, three, four, one, two, three, four, two, two, three, four—
Whatever kind of dancin' y'all are doin', you're doin' it together, and I want in! [beat] I-I mean, uh, [clears throat] Would it be okay if I enrolled in this dance class?
Well, let's see what you can do. We have a recital at town hall tonight, and a spot just opened up! [hushed] Tender Taps is a little too shy to perform. But if you're ready to step into a partnered routine...
That sounds an awful lot like friendship! And I'm ready for anything I don't have to do by myself!
Whooooooa!
Whoa, whoaaa!
Whew! I feel like that went pretty good, but let's give it one more whirl, because it's important that I do a good job partnering with my new group of friends.
Eh... Now I'm think of it, you might be better as soloist.
Uh, partnering is a little advanced for you. But there's still lots you can do on your own.
I'm sorry, but doin' stuff on my own is exactly what I don't want.
Sorry it didn't work out.
Tryin' different things with my friends is always fun, even when we were terrible. Now it's just terrible.
You weren't that bad. You just need to learn a few things on your own. Being a soloist can be fun! [tap dancing] Ha. Haha! You just have to do it with feeling!
[sighs] Thanks, but... without my friends, I don't think I'll ever feel again. Good luck at the recital.
Oh, I'm not gonna do that. I mean, I want to. It's kind of all I think about. I bet some day my cutie mark will even be about performing! But I could never dance in front of an audience the way I do in class. That's t-t-t-t-terrifying!
[deadpan] Yeah, okay. Nice meetin' you.
Sweetie Belle! You are not gonna believe this, but I think I like bungee jumping even more than scootering!
Seriously?! That's amazing! Look what I did!
Wow, uh, that's, um...
Horrible! But it was so much fun! Rarity showed me how, even though she says [imitating Rarity] "Crochet is knitting's poorer cousin", [normal] but I loved it!
Awesome!
Oh, hello, girls. Have fun pursuing your own interests?
Apple Bloom? What are you doing sitting in the dark?
Yeah, we thought you'd be out looking for things you like to do.
[laughs] I did. I looked all over town. I looked... and I looked... and I looked... and you know what I found? Nothin'!
You tried every one of these?
And each one just made me feel more alone than the next! I don't see how I'm supposed to be happy that we're not hanging out anymore!
Wait, I never said that. I just said we don't have to do everything together.
Like when there's something one of us wants to do that the others don't.
Oh. [beat] Well, I guess that changes things.
I can't believe you thought we didn't want to hang out anymore.
I can't believe you tried all this stuff and didn't find one thing you liked!
Well, I kind of liked dancin', mainly because it looked like somethin' you couldn't do alone, but... I wasn't very good at it.
Well, you don't have to be good at something to have fun!
And being good doesn't always mean you will.
I know... I met the best dancer in the world, but he was so shy, he couldn't bring himself to perform, even though he really, really wanted to.
I don't suppose this dancing pony had a cutie mark, did he?
You're here!
Shhhh!
What are you doing here?
You told me that you wanted to perform more than anythin', but I was too caught up in myself to listen. You're the best dancer I've ever seen, and I'm here to convince you to get out on that stage!
Um, didn't I also tell you that dancing in front of other ponies is t-t-terrifying?! I don't know if you noticed, but that auditorium is full of other ponies! I can't go out there! What if I'm bad?!
We can go on together! No matter what, you'll look good dancin' next to me.
[sighs] All right, I'll do it. But I don't have my costume, and the backdrop is all wrong, and we don't have time to change it!
Leave everything to us.
[nervously] I don't know about this...
Don't worry, you'll be just fine!
Here goes nothin'...
Can't be any worse than I was!
I can't believe it! It's just what I always imagined it would be! And if it weren't for all of you, I wouldn't even have it.
No problem!
It's what we do.
I only wish I'd realized what you needed right away instead of mopin' around for no reason...
[taps] You know, I just might! It sure is a lot of fun, and I'm pretty confident I can only get better. [to the Crusaders] I'm sorry I was so silly about us all doin' our own things. If we hadn't, I might never even have tried dancin'!
Or find out I needed help!
With each of us going out and trying things on our own, we'll be three times as likely to find ponies to help!
And trying new stuff might even make us better at helping them, like how I used my bungee jumping to change the sets!
Or my crochet to make the costumes!
Well, one thing is for sure. The Cutie Mark Crusaders will never be the same. We'll be better!
Yeah!
[hushed] The last time I was here, I woke them and ended up with a mane full of bats! [sighs] Thanks for being my basket holder, Spike.
Basket holder? I thought I was your bodyguard.
[hushed] What? Oh, heh, yes, yes, that of course, too. Oh, for once I wish unicorn magic wasn't so... luminescent!
[hushed] Spike! You'll wake the bats! Turn that off!
I'm so glad you two could come!
Of course. We so rarely get a chance to relax and just visit.
There's usually some crisis we have to deal with. Somepony always needs our help. But today—
[muffled, wailing] Help!
Twilight! There's something wrong with Spike!
What's wrong?
[grunts] I don't know! Nngh! All of a sudden, my scales just started glowing and... burning!
Little is known about dragon culture, but this is a phenomenon we've seen before. It is the call of the Dragon Lord.
Dragons glow whenever the Dragon Lord has need of them in the Dragon Lands.
Great... H-How do I make it stop?!
The only way to end the summons is to answer it. You must journey to the Dragon Lands and see what is expected of you.
B-B-But the Dragon Lands are full of... dragons! And they're ghastly creatures! [beat] Oh, oh, not you, of course, Spikey-wikey. But remember that rotten Garble?
[gulps] How could I forget? He would have burnt us to a crisp if you weren't there. If I have to go to the Dragon Lands, would you two come with me?
Ooh! Oh my goodness, I'd love to! We are sadly lacking any information on dragon culture and customs. I could research them – maybe even write an article! This could be my chance to make a great contribution to the knowledge of Equestria! [beat] And be there for Spike, heh, of course.
Be very careful. The Dragon Lands are particularly dangerous for ponies. It would be wise to be discreet.
I think we might want something a little more practical this time.
Hmmm... Well, it may be practical, but this disguise isn't flattering in the slightest!
[hushed] It's not supposed to be flattering. It's supposed to blend in!
Shh!
Hey-hey, look! It's our old friend Sparkle-warkle.
It's Spike.
Are you sure your pony friends didn't give you a pony name?
It's nice to see you too, Garble.
I didn't say it was nice to see you. It's not. I don't like you. Was I not clear about that?
Hey! That's my rock!
Oh, really? Then why aren't you sitting on it?
Dragons of Equestria, hear me! I have been Dragon Lord for longer than many of you can remember, and my reign has been extraordinary! [beat] Agree with me!
[general agreeing noises] Torch! Torch! Torch! Torch!
Who is that?
It's Dragon Lord Torch, dummy.
No, next to him.
That's his daughter, Princess Ember. I wouldn't even look at her if I were you, unless you want Torch to eat you!
[hushed] This is fascinating! Dragons are notoriously reckless, but they do whatever the Dragon Lord says!
Unfortunately, according to dragon law, it is time for me to step down. Sad, I know. [beat] Be sad!
This is why I have summoned you – to compete for the throne in the Gauntlet of Fire!
Whomever has the strength and fortitude to retrieve this bloodstone scepter from the heart of the flame-cano will be crowned Lord of the Dragons!
[hushed] When the scepter disappeared, the dragons stopped glowing! We are learning so much!
Uh, excuse me!
Ugh, you even sneeze like a pony!
The Gauntlet is dangerous, for I designed it myself! Only dragons with my ferocity, strength, and determination will be able to finish. We will gather at the cliff when the sun is at its peak!
I don't want to be Dragon Lord or dragon toast, and I stopped glowing, so let's sneak out of here!
Ah! Where do you think you're going, little dragon?!
Oh, uh, hi, your Lordship. Uh, I was just going home!
You don't get to leave unless I say you can!
Dad, look at him. He's just a runt. Besides, he doesn't even wanna compete. Let him go.
That wasn't a joke. It was a fact. When I want you to laugh, I will say "be amused!"
Of course, your Lordship! I, uh, guess I don't understand dragon customs. Another reason why I shouldn't compete.
[sighs] Hm. Very well then, little dragon. I release you.
Thank you! [to Ember] And thank you.
[grunts] Where do you think you're going?
To prepare for the Gauntlet.
No, you're not. You're not much bigger than that runt I just sent home!
But I'm smarter than most of these boulderheads and you know it!
Being smart won't help you win this Gauntlet! It was designed for a big, strong dragon to win, because it takes a big, strong dragon to lead! Besides, I said no!
[growls] I hate when he does that!
Ha. When I become Dragon Lord, I will make burps an official greeting!
"Barry": Ha, you? Please! When I win, I will pillage Equestria for all their pillows. Why should these ponies be comfortable while we sleep on rocks?
That's nothing! When I'm in charge, the first thing I'll do is get revenge on those puny ponies! They'll regret they ever crossed Garble! We'll take whatever we want from Equestria and burn the rest!
[hushed] Oh, my gosh!
[hushed] Ooh, I can't believe I'm saying this, but I hope that burping dragon wins!
None of them can win! Equestria's in big trouble if any of them are in charge!
But what can we do?
There's only one thing to do, and only I can do it! I have to win the Gauntlet of Fire!
Oh...
What do you mean you have to win the Gauntlet?
It's the only way to protect Equestria from the dragons. You heard them! They have horrible plans for ponies if they win! So somehow, I have to do it!
There has to be another way. It's too dangerous. Besides, if you win, you'd have to stay here!
I know, but there's no other way to keep my friends safe.
Well, if you're staying to compete, then we're staying to cheer you on!
I thought I released you, tiny one!
I decided to compete. I am a dragon, after all.
Are you sure? You can't even fly!
Good luck! Just kidding. I hope you lose.
[gasps] [sarcastically] Thanks, Garble! I was planning on swimming anyway!
You can do it, Spike!
He's gonna drown!
Spike!
Hey, are you okay?
[gasps] Princess Ember!
What do you think you're doing?
Only saving your ungrateful scales!
Did that seaweed just talk? Ponies?! What are they doing here?!
They're my friends!
Friends? Dragons don't do friends.
Well, this dragon does.
Whatever. I don't care as long as none of you get in my way. I have a Gauntlet to win.
But I thought your dad said that—
I don't care what my dad said! I'll show him and every dragon who thinks I'm just a little princess there are better things than being big and strong!
[scream] [grunts] Don't leave me here, Spike!
Ha-ha! Knew you'd do it. Your pony friends made you soft.
Uh-huh. You're welcome.
[gruff voice] Uh, that's just me. I, uh, robbed some ponies on my way over here.
Huh, I like your style. Have I met you before? You kind of look like—
My, uh, old neighbor! Uh, Sandy... Rockbeach!
Stupid slingtails knocked me down! But I've wasted enough time making small talk. Get it? Ha-ha! Because you're too small to win this! I'm funny.
Why did you cover for me? You could've had one less competitor.
I could ask you the same thing. You could've told Garble about my friends.
Yikes... That looks rough. But that's what makes it a challenge.
Are you kidding? Those boulders are huge! Hey, what if we worked together? You fly me up there, and I'll help look out for boulders, like a second set of eyes!
Pssst!
[hushed] Spike! Are you sure it's a good idea to team up with Ember? You don't know her too well.
I do know she could've told Garble about you, but she didn't. I think we can trust her.
Her behavior does seem contradictory to everything I've noted about dragons so far.
Hey, you, little fella! I've thought about it, and your plan makes sense. Let's do it.
Really? Great! It's a deal!
Just so you know, this doesn't mean we're gonna pick flowers or exchange necklaces or whatever pony friends do.
Good luck. We'll meet you at the top.
Pull up! There's one on your tail!
Go left!
So what do we do now?
I think we go through there.
[yelps] Oh, that looks scary! I mean, you can do it!
Listen, Spike. I wouldn't have made it this far without you. So I guess, if you want to, we could keep working together. I mean, just until we get through that tunnel.
Okay!
[hushed] We'll be right behind you!
[gasps] Oof!
Urgh!
Oh, you made it! Oh, we were so worried!
Wait. How did you two get through?
Rarity!
[yelps] [panting] Oh, thanks, Spike!
[sighs] It was nothing.
Nothing? You just risked everything to save her! And they're putting themselves in danger just to support you!
Well, that's just what friends do. Don't you have anyone who looks out for you?
Not really. Unless I count you. [beat] Which I don't! Because we were only helping each other get through the tunnel, and now we're through the tunnel, so that's it.
Wait, what do you mean?
Well, there's only one winner, one scepter, and one Dragon Lord. So I guess it's every dragon for themselves.
Oh. So we aren't really friends?
Maybe if we were in Ponyland, but like I said, dragons don't do friendship.
I can't believe Ember ditched me.
[muffled] Oh, you're better off. She was only looking out for herself. She's just like all the other dragons.
She's not, though. I know it. She saved me, even when she didn't have to. I don't care what she says. That makes us friends.
Is it just me, or have we seen this crevasse three times already?
It's kinda hard to tell. They all look the same. Except for this one! Look! We made it! I can't believe I'm the only dragon to make it this far!
You're not! And I'm not losing to a puny pony-loving dragon like you!
[yelps] [muffled] We have to do something!
[muffled] Look!
[screaming] Ember! I thought it was every dragon for themselves! Why did you save me?!
That's what friends do! And I am. I mean, we are. I never should have left you back there. Agh, please don't make me talk about my feelings!
[straining] Argh! Whoa!
[frustrated grunt] I'm sick and tired of you two helping each other! Dragons don't do helping!
[panting] Whoa...
Leave her alone!
What? You?! You have the scepter?! But that means that you're...
The Dragon Lord. Dragon Lord Spike.
[groans] [reluctantly] Dragon... Lord... Spike...
That's right! Uh... Now, go start your long journey home. And give every dragon you see on the way a hug. Don't tell them why.
Awww! But that'll be super embarrassing!
I command you to do it!
[annoyed noise] I can't believe this...
Dragon Lord Spike. Hm, has a nice ring to it.
Dragon Lord Ember sounds a lot better.
What? No. You're the Dragon Lord now.
The Dragon Lord is whoever brings the scepter back to your father! Besides, you'll make a great leader. I was just doing this to protect the ponies. But I know you'll protect them just as well as I would have.
You sure about this?
Absolutely. My home is in Equestria with my friends.
Well, you'll have at least one friend here too. What are you doing?
It's called a hug!
Oh. I don't know if I like it. But... okay.
Mmmmm!
[hushed] Awww!
Ember? You?!
I know you didn't think I could do it, but I did.
I expressly told you not to do it, because you're not—!
I'm not big and strong. I know. But you know what? I won anyway. So maybe it takes more than just being big and strong to be a good Dragon Lord!
I was wrong, Ember. You might not be big, but you are strong and smart, and perhaps that counts for more than I thought. And you will make an excellent leader.
Thanks, dad. [to dragons] Agree with him! Just kidding! That's not gonna be my thing.
[laughing] Dragons, hear me! I present to you our new Dragon Lord, Ember!
[to Garble] Hm? What is the meaning of this?!
I can't tell you!
You did well, Spike. With Ember as Dragon Lord, the ponies will be safe and you've gained us a powerful ally.
And a new friend!
Plus, Ember said I could write to her anytime I had questions about dragon culture! With this much information, I'll be able to write a whole book on dragons!
And I gained tons of ideas for a new line of camouflage clothing! I think I'll call it "Camo-Maud"!
First lesson of the day, we very carefully set the table without using magic, so that— Yikes!
Did you...?! How? When? What?!
What?
I said no magic. You were supposed to do it by hoof so I could work in a friendship lesson.
Oh, I heard "set the table" and just kinda went for it.
Well, if you hadn't used magic, you'd have heard me say, uh... this plate represents your head, this spoon is your heart, and the knives... are sharp! Always be careful with knives. [sigh] The metaphors make more sense when you're actually setting the table.
Should I... change it back?
I just want to make sure you're ready for this dinner. Princess Celestia will be joining us tomorrow night to see how the friendship lessons are going!
If it's just you, me, and Princess Celestia, why are there four seats?
Well, the whole point is for you to bring a new friend. That way, the princess will see for herself just how far you've come. And how good a teacher you have.
Well, I can't choose. I like all your friends.
That's the best part! You have to make a new friend!
New friends? Hey, maybe I'll just force friendships by magically enslaving the entire population of Ponyville!
Starlight!
Let's see. Make new friends in Ponyville, the friendliest place in Equestria. Shouldn't be hard...
Need to make a new friend, huh? I know just the pony for you!
Miss Starlight Glimmer, meet Mrs. Cake!
Mrs. How are you, dearie?
Are you baking? Can I help?
Wow, Mrs. Cake! Look what your new friend made you!
Mrs. [chuckles] New friend. I like the sound of– [gasps] Howza-wowza! A-Are you trying to put me out of business with your fancy magical-thingy-whatsit cake?!
Sorry...
I think I have just the pony for you, Starlight. Meet Big Mac!
Eeyup!
He's not much of a talker.
Nnope.
Oh, that's too bad. I love a good conversation.
[motormouth] Eeyup-yup-yup-yup-yup-yup-yup-yup-y-y-y-y-you did something! Whoa! What's happening? I feel really weird! I'm talkin' so much! And I'm so articulate! Enunciating with such precise pronunciation! Annie Apple awoke and accidentally ate an auburn azalea! [screams] Make it stop!
I can't be friends with somepony who doesn't talk.
...And I guess my first instinct shouldn't be to magically command ponies to act the way I want them to?
Alright, I'll change him back!
The trick to finding a new friend is to render yourself radiant. First impressions count a great deal, you know.
I'm glad you all got past my first impression.
Well, everypony deserves a second chance. Ooh! Now, I have a top-notch idea. I'm thinking pastel silk here and here with a crinoline underneath.
You really think a new outfit will help me meet ponies?
Oh, with the right outfit, you can do anything, darling!
When will it be ready?
Three weeks.
Dinner's tomorrow.
Well then, how about a hat from the... [clears throat] ...clearance bin?
Ugh! Maybe not.
Heh. Nopony's gonna make friends with you because of your outfit. The only thing you want a new friend draped in is coolness.
Like you?
Yeah, but you already know me, so... [gasps] [spitting] Spitfire! Heh. Sorry.
Who's that?
[gasps] Only the Wonderbolt-iest pony in the Wonderbolts! Come on, I'll introduce you!
You coming or what?
I guess my first question would be, "What's a Wonderbolt?"
[gasps] You've never heard of the Wonderbolts?! Where have you been?!
[nervously] Enslaving villages, I guess...
Right.
You're adorable, but probably not what Twilight had in mind.
[groan] What is going on? This is Ponyville! If I can't make a friend here, there's gotta be something wrong with me! [sighs] Okay, calm down. Nobody makes friends with a total stresscase.
[to herself] Stop stressing... Stop stressing!
[sighs] This is just what I needed.
[sighs] Tell me about it.
You ever have one of those days?
For me, they're all one of those days.
I'm gonna start coming here every time I visit Ponyville.
I'm not from here either. I've been trying to make friends, but it's not easy. They're not saying it, but I think everypony knows about my past. I may have been a tiny bit... completely and utterly evil?
Ponies judge me on my past too.
Finally, a pony I can relate to.
Twilight, guess what? I made a new friend!
That's fantastic news!
She's great!
Great!
She's powerful!
Powerful?
She's—
Hello... princess!
Trixie?!
You know each other?
You could say that.
We've had our differences. What matters is Twilight gave me a second chance, and I appreciate it.
So, um, what brings you to Ponyville?
The Grrrreat and Powerful Trrrrixie has come to perform a new stage show of grand illusion! I am calling it "The Humble and Penitent Trixie's Equestrian Apology Tour"!
[hushed] That's kind of a mouthful.
[hushed] It's a working title.
Starlight? A moment? Over here? [hushed] I know I said make friends with anypony, but, well, with Trixie's past, and your past, I'm not sure she's the best... first friend.
But whatever she did, you've forgiven her, right?
Of course. It's just... She wasn't the nicest pony.
Well, you did say anypony, and I just assumed that you'd trust me to make my own friends the way Princess Celestia trusted you.
[sighs] You're right. I trust you. Just be back in time for the dinner.
Thanks, Twilight! You won't regret it!
This magic show's gonna be the greatest thing Ponyville's ever seen!
[unintelligible whispering] ...did you see...?
Caramel, Shoeshine, [unintelligible whispering] ...did you hear...?
Everypony always says they'll give you a second chance, but deep down, they never forget.
That's what I'm worried about.
What is it?
I heard what Twilight said about me, and she's right. I wasn't very nice. So I'd understand if you didn't want to be friends.
Are you kidding? You're the first pony I've met who has any idea how I feel!
Can you keep a secret?
What are friends for?
[hushed] The things I've done? I did them because I was jealous of Twilight. She's just the best at everything, and I wanted to beat her at something!
[hushed] Your secret's safe with me.
Thanks. Want to help me unpack my wagon?
I spend a lot of time on the road with my wagon, so it might be a tad messy.
Maybe I can help. I'm pretty good at organizing stuff. Magic props, brainwashed crowds...
Pssssssst! Pssst! Psssssst! Shhhhhh!
Uh, I'll catch up. I think there's something in my hoof.
Sure. The wagon's right around the corner.
[hushed] So, how's it going with your new friend?
[sarcastically] Great. Thanks for asking in a completely not creepy way.
Because you know, if it isn't working out for any reason, I could introduce you to my friend here.
[deadpan] Nice to meet you.
No, no! You can come out now!
You like music, right? DJ Pon-3'd be the perfect friend for tonight's incredibly important dinner with Celestia. You know, if you decide to make a last-minute change. Heh.
So back at your castle when you said "I trust you", you meant "I don't trust you".
[nervously] Who can really say who said what? I know I can't! [to DJ Pon-3] Can you?
Starlight, I'm just trying to look out for you.
[sighs] I appreciate it, but you're wrong about Trixie. She's just like me. We have a real connection.
That's kind of what I'm afraid of. Oh! What about her?
Please, Twilight! I know you're trying to help, but I need to make friends on my own if I'm going to become a better pony.
But do you really think Trixie's the one to help you with that?
Wow. Trixie was right. You're not really giving her a second chance. I wonder what that says about how you feel about me.
Oh! Now he'd be perfect!
I was thinking. You said Twilight is better than you at everything, but that's not true. You're better at magic.
Only when I'm wearing a soul-sucking evil amulet, so I don't think that counts. Funny story. Don't need to get into it.
I meant stage magic.
Well, of course! Great? Yes. Powerful? Obviously. But I'm not the best. As great and powerful as I am, there's one trick I've never been able to do – the Moonshot Manticore Mouth Dive!
[narrating] Only one magician has ever pulled it off – my hero, Hoofdini! You are supposed to blast yourself into the open mouth of a hungry manticore! After the manticore chews you up and swallows you, you magically step out of a box on the other side of the stage!
Completely unharmed!
That sounds very...
Dangerous?
I was gonna say cool!
I knew I liked you for a reason. I don't know how he did it! If I tried it, I'd get chewed up and swallowed by that manticore.
Not if you could use real magic.
Obviously. Way to rub it in.
No, I mean, I could help! You could start the trick, and right before you got chewed up, I could use magic to save you...
...and make you appear in the black box!
I guess that would work... But if you made one mistake, I'd be a goner.
Hah. When it comes to magic, I don't make mistakes. Maybe I could be your... magic show helper pony!
We call it "assistant" in the magician biz. And... nopony's ever offered to help before.
Well, I'd be honored.
You may have just made my great and powerful magic show even better! Which I didn't think was possible! We're gonna blow them away tonight!
[groans] I can't! Tonight's this incredibly important dinner with Twilight.
Oh.
Can I vent for a minute?
What are friends for?
Even after Twilight says she trusts me, she clearly doesn't trust me enough to choose my own friends. [sighs] I guess you were right. No second chances.
Hmph, I wish I could say I was surprised. Well, lucky for Princess Twilight, I have my magic show tonight. If you have to go to the dinner, I completely understand. [dramatically] I just hope I find a way to survive the Moonshot Manticore Mouth Dive without my new assistant!
Starlight? Has anyone seen Starlight Glimmer? I'm looking for her! Trixie.
So this is the Humble and Penitent Trixie's Equestrian Apology Tour?
Ain't that a mouthful of molasses.
It's a working title! Oh, this is gonna be the greatest night of my life! Excuse me. Our lives.
[sighs] I'm so glad we're not at that boring dinner.
Ahem? You just decided to skip our dinner without telling me? Are you aware that, at this very moment, Princess Celestia is waiting for you at a table with exquisite silverware placement?!
Yes, but—
This is exactly why I didn't want you to make friends with Trixie.
A-ha! You still don't trust me! But guess what, princess? It doesn't matter if you want to give me a second chance or not. Starlight had to choose between you and me, and she chose me! Your pupil chose me, so ha! I win!
You win? That sounds like you just made friends with me to beat Twilight.
Exactly! [beat] Wait! I mean, no! I got caught up in the moment. I like you. Beating Twilight is just a bonus. [gasps] Saying that didn't help, did it?
Well, you won. I hope you're happy!
[sighs] Looks like the Great and Powerful Trixie is back to a solo show.
Trixie?
...Which is exactly the way she likes it! Thank you, Princess Twilight, for getting rid of that annoying pony who wanted to be my first friend! I am not sad at all! I definitely don't feel as if my heart is breaking into a million pieces!
[unenthusiastic] Come one, come all. Come and see the Pathetic and Friendless Trixie's "Way-To-Go-Dum-Dum-You-Really-Messed-It-Up-This-Time Repentance Tour".
It's a working title! [unenthusiastic] Behold, your fears come true. A pony-eating manticore.
[unenthusiastic] For tonight, the Great and Powerful Trixie will be performing the Moonshot Manticore Mouth Dive.
[unenthusiastic] Now, now, save your gasps for when I defy the beast's jaws of doom and appear inside that black box. [dramatically] I was supposed to perform this trick with my great and powerful assistant, who was also my great and powerful friend!
Starlight, when I first came to Ponyville, Princess Celestia gave me room to make my own decisions and my own friends. I need to give you the same freedom. I shouldn't have tried to pick and choose your friends for you. Just like me, you have to make your own decisions and your own friends.
But... what if Trixie really was using me just to one-up you?
From what I've seen, she's the real thing.
But it's not my place to judge. It's all up to you.
Starlight? If you're out there and you still want to be friends, let's be great and powerful together! [slightly echoing] Please?
[woozy] Behold, the Peat and Growerful Triskie...!
[amplified] And now, I'm proud to introduce my great and powerful assistant! [normal] And best friend. [amplified] Starlight Glimmer!
Trixie!
What do you want?
I was wrong. I'm sorry. And I have to hand it to you. I could never have pulled off a trick like that.
Thank you, princess.
How do you get your hair to do that all the time?
Hey! Rainbow Dash!
Hiya, Scootaloo! What's up?
The Rainbow Dash Fan Club just decided – everypony's coming to see you when the Wonderbolts' new tour comes through Ponyville!
Well, it's great that you guys are going to the show, Scoot, but I won't actually be performing in it. Reservists aren't in the show unless one of the real Wonderbolts can't fly. [chuckles] I'll probably be working crowd control or something.
You're still gonna be wearing a Wonderbolts uniform though, right?
A Reservist one, yeah.
Hmm. That's good enough for me.
Whoa!
Rainbow Dash! Glad we found you. We need you in the show when we get to Ponyville. Flying.
But she's only in the Reserves!
Not anymore, kid.
[slow gasp] You mean...
[gasps] Rainbow Dash! You're finally a full-fledged Wonderbolt! Woo-hoo! [laughs] Yeah, Rainbow Dash! Whoo!
Heh. What she said.
Uh, anypony seen my wing balm? I don't want to be stiff when I show up at Wonderbolt headquarters.
Got it!
Do you have time to tell us what happened, Rainbow Dash?
Oh, yes, we must know every detail!
Start from when you were a foal and you first knew your destiny was to become a Wonderbolt!
Heh. Well, not much to tell, really. Spitfire told me the Wonderbolts need me to go on tour with them.
That's really great. I know how long you've been waiting for a spot to open up.
Yeah. Fire Streak decided to retire and teach full-time. Cloudsdale Flight School will probably be churning out Wonderbolts with him there. But guess who was at the top of the Reserve list.
Ooh, ooh, I know! Pick me!
So what do you do now, Dashie?
I have to report to Wonderbolts headquarters this afternoon. It's only two days 'til tour starts, and I need to learn the routine.
You're leaving already?! [gasps] But we barely started your congratulation party! I haven't even thought about your going-away party yet!
Pinkie, I'm not leaving Ponyville. I just have to train for this show.
I hope everything goes well. Sounds like an awful lot of pressure having to learn everything so quickly.
Yeah. Good luck, Dash.
Luck? Heh. Save that for the rest of the team.
Now that my awesomeness has finally been recognized, the other Wonderbolts will have to keep up or eat my cloud trail!
Everypony knows you're a great flyer, Rainbow Dash, but so are the rest of the Wonderbolts. It might be more challenging than you think.
Aw, you're right! I mean, do I show up wearing sunglasses or not? Sunglasses are automatically cool, but anypony can put them on. Maybe I'd stand out more if I didn't.
Team briefings are every morning at—
0720, because there were twenty ponies in the original E.U.P. Guard that became the Wonderbolts!
Right. And I know you've seen the academy bunks, but these are the official Wonderbolts barracks.
Built by Admiral Fairweather himself!
Don't forget rule number one, newbie. Always check both ways before crossing the runway.
Uh, sure, but... nopony else is here.
They will be, and most of the Wonderbolts like to make a flashy entrance, so stay alert.
Right, no problem!
Whoa! Is that General Flash's cap?!
And the original crest with the Wonderbolts motto on it.
"Altius volantis! Soaring higher!"
Wow! [gasps] I mean, ha, cool.
Okay, newbie, we've got a show in two days, which means you gotta hustle your haunches to learn this routine. You got five minutes to get dressed and get outside to meet the rest of the team.
Yes, ma'am! I'll have all of the moves down by the end of the day!
Let's hope so. We're all expecting you to make quite an impression.
Lookin' good! Okay, you're about to take your first flight as an actual Wonderbolt. [sighs] No pressure. [stretching groan] Just gotta go out there and knock 'em off their hooves. Okay, Wonderbolts, get ready to meet your most awesome member ever!
Hey, look out!
Huh? Whooaaa!
Whoa, most awesome entrance by a newbie ever.
Are you okay, Rainbow Dash?
More like Rainbow Crash.
Okay, flight school! Get ready for Rainbow Dash! Hah—whooooa!
More like Rainbow Crash!
Rainbow Crash! Rainbow Crash! Rainbow Crash! Rainbow Crash!
Hey! You guys buzzed me on purpose!
Not quite. You forgot rule number one, newbie.
Surprise, Fleetfoot, High Winds, Always check both ways before crossing the runway.
Yeah, well, I was just... testing you guys!
Alright, nopony got hurt and we got a lot to do, so let's forget about this and get flying!
Classic rookie move, Rainbow Crash. That was amazing.
[through loudhailer] Higher, Crash! You're breaking formation!
Check your nine, Crash!
Tighter, Crash, get in there!
[growls] My name's not Crash!
Huh, could've fooled me.
Hey, Crash, I know it was a tough day today, but don't worry. You'll get the hang of it.
Tough day? Please. If I can pull off a sonic rainboom, I can learn this routine. I'll have it down cold tomorrow. Probably even come up with a couple of improvements.
Rainbow Dash, over here!
Yes, ma'am!
I'm glad you're still here.
Oh, yeah? Did you want some ideas on how to make the show extra-awesome?
Not quite. I know you've been a Reservist for a while, but the 'Bolts have a few of their own rules you might not know about. Like worst flyer of the day has to clean up the whole compound. Better get to it, Crash.
[sighs] [under her breath] My name's not Crash.
Surprise!
What?
Hooray, Rainbow Dash! Our favorite Wonderbolt!
We know you're probably tired, Rainbow Dash, but Pinkie wanted to throw you a real party.
Your best day [through megaphone] ever party!
[nervous laugh] Yeah. It was somethin', all right.
Well we can't wait to hear all about it!
Heh. And I'd love to tell you, I really would, but I'm pretty beat. [yawns] You know, from all the... excitement of my big day?
Um, is something wrong, Rainbow Dash?
What could be wrong? I'm finally a Wonderbolt, which means everything has to be totally, perfectly awesome.
Oh, no. Something is wrong. What happened, darling?
I told you, it's nothing! I mean, maybe some of the Wonderbolts started calling me Rainbow Crash...
Oh, no! Isn't that the same terrible nickname those bullies in flight school used to call you?
Why would they call you that?
Urgh.
Well, look at the bright side! At least they didn't call you Rainbow Trash!
So you started off on the wrong hoof. I'll bet every new Wonderbolt has a tough first day.
Mmm-hmm! What you need is to find a positive way to stand out. As soon as you're known for something else, that nasty old nickname will be forgotten.
Rarity's right. Why don't you think of the Wonderbolts like us? We're a team, but we all stand out in different ways.
That's it! I'm gonna stand out in a different way, just like you guys! Goodbye, Rainbow Crash; hello, Captain Awesome!
[imitating Pinkie Pie] Good morning, everypony! Who's ready for a fantastic day of flying? I know I am! I just couldn't be more excited for the big show tomorrow. Are you guys excited? I'm excited! Actually, I'm always excited! Some ponies even call me "Dynamic Dash"!
Uh, Wonderbolts don't get excited, Crash. You gotta keep a level head to fly the way we do.
[sighs] [imitating Applejack] Well, of course I know that! But the truth of the matter is, you should be excited! It's the dream of near every little Pegasus pony to grow up and fly with the Wonderbolts! And here you all are doin' it!
So are you.
[imitating Applejack] True! Go ahead and call me "Forthright Filly" if you want. But shee-yucks, I like to tell it like it is, and I believe a pony oughta appreciate hard work payin' off like this, because bein' a Wonderbolt is somethin' special!
We know.
[imitating Twilight Sparkle] You know, I was just reading about how dihedral wing angles can help increase stability in banking turns. It made me think that pre-flight checklists could really help increase our efficiency, so I went ahead and made them for everypony!
[imitating Twilight Sparkle] I'm always finding so much interesting information in books. In fact, a lot of ponies call me "Reading Rainboom".
[through loudhailer] We all know how wings work, newbie! And we already have checklists! Now get off the runway!
[imitating Fluttershy] I'm so sorry. I was just trying to help because I care about all of the Wonderbolts oh-so much. Yessiree, just call me "Care Mare". [beat] Um, but if you're busy now, I can just come back later...
[imitating Fluttershy] Or, you know, not at all...
[to herself] Okay. [imitating Rarity] I must tell you how much I just love these uniforms. Why, ever since I was a foal, I've admired the mixture of bold lines and classic contours. They don't call me "Rainbow Fash" for nothing.
Uhhhh... huh...?
[imitating Rarity] The "Fash" is for "Fashion".
Crash! I'm not sure why you're acting like this, but you need to stop.
I was just, you know, trying to show everypony all the awesome ways I can contribute to the 'Bolts.
I know you're excited to find your place on the team, but just focus on the routine for now, okay?
Yes, ma'am.
Maybe this will help motivate you.
Crash?! Couldn't you just put my regular name on it?!
That's not how it works around here. We all have our nicknames on our jackets. Right, Clipper?
Clipper?
Right, boss!
[groans] If I don't come up with something unforgettable to add to the routine, I'm gonna be Rainbow Crash for the rest of my life!
This is gonna be so amazing!
I know! I'm almost as excited as Pinkie Pie!
I can't wait to see Rainbow Dash's first performance as an honest-to-goodness Wonderbolt! I hope there's cotton candy!
We should all remember to be extra supportive for Rainbow Dash too.
Excellent point. It's simply dreadful that she's had such a rough start after finally achieving her dream.
Rainbow Dash is a pretty resilient pony. I'm sure she's shaken off her tough first day and turned it around by now!
Speakin' of... Hey, Dash!
Perfect! Hey, can I borrow Scootaloo?
Me? What for?
Oh, heh, I just needed some help and figured the president of the Rainbow Dash Fan Club was the right pony for the job!
I thought the Wonderbolt Reserves were here to help.
Oh, yeah, they're all busy doing, uh, official Reserve stuff. But don't worry! With Scootaloo's help, everything's gonna be awesome. Better than awesome!
Does... Does that mean practice went well yesterday?
Gotta go.
What are we doing up here, Rainbow Dash?
I just need a small favor from you that's really gonna make this show something special. Now, the Wonderbolts are gonna fly over this ridge right before the finale of the show. I'll fly by last, and when I signal you, you zip up the ramp on your scooter and kick the storm cloud into my path!
What?
That kick will shoot off a lightning bolt right behind me, making me look totally awesome! And then I'll do some incredible Rainbow Dash flying with it to create the coolest, show-stoppingest, lightning-tastic light show anypony has ever seen!
Are you sure about this?
Uh-huh! It's gonna be so awesome! And nopony will ever call me "Rainbow Crash" after this!
Oh, gotta go! Be ready for me, okay, Scootaloo?
Um... okay...?
[through loudspeaker] Mares and gentlecolts, fillies and foals of all ages! Look to the skies and prepare to be awestruck by the incredible flying prowess of... the Wonderbolts!
I hope Spike and Pinkie Pie are done getting their snacks, or they're gonna miss Rainbow Dash!
Oh, don't worry, Fluttershy. Nothing would keep Pinkie Pie from missing this!
Heh. Except maybe cotton candy.
Come on, Pinkie, the show's starting!
One second! Just a little bit bigger please, but hurry! Bigger!
That was amazing! She's doing great!
Bigger!
I hope this works.
Hope I'm not too late. [scoffs] I dunno what took that pony so long.
That was amazing!
Way to go, Rainbow Crash.
You gonna tell us what just happened, newbie?
[sighs] I'm so sorry.
I should hope so. You changed the routine without consulting me and put other ponies at risk. I've drummed flyers out of the 'Bolts for less.
I know, and I'm ready for whatever punishment you want. You guys were right to call me "Rainbow Crash". I've always been a standout flyer, but since I joined the Wonderbolts, I've only stood out for making mistakes. [sighs] It's been my dream my whole life, but... I guess maybe I'm not Wonderbolt material after all.
Are you serious?! You're the most talented flyer we've ever had!
And you've saved all of Equestria like, a dozen times.
Uh, I—
Of course you're supposed to be a Wonderbolt. We've been waiting for a spot to open up ever since you joined the Reserves!
But... you guys all called me Rainbow Crash.
Yeah, so? My nickname's "Clipper". You know why they call me that?
Uh... 'cause you're as fast as a ship?
Because I clipped my wing on a flagpole as I was landing on my first day. Heh.
Huh.
"Flatfoot". My first day, I misjudged my landing and came down right on Spitfire's hoof.
"Dizzy".
"Slowpoke".
"Hoof-in-Mouth".
Whoa! That is so much worse than Crash.
Right?
So does this mean I'm... still on the team?
Do you think you can be part of this team and not constantly try to showboat?
I promise! I spent my whole life trying to be a standout flyer, but now that I'm a Wonderbolt, it's time to be okay with fitting in!
Good, because I really didn't want to miss the chance to tease you for years about this catastrophe! I mean, that crash was epic!
But you're on probation for a month. Got a problem with that?!
[quickly] No, ma'am.
Hey. Rainbow Dash. We just wanted to check on you. Are you doing okay?
I'm doing great, thanks!
Sure you don't need any help?
Nah. This mess is my responsibility, and I've gotta clean it up myself. And after this, Spitfire's got me cleaning the Wonderbolts' compound for the next month.
So why are you in such a good mood?
Duh! Because I'm a Wonderbolt!
Ponies' voices fill the night Hearth's Warming Eve is here once again Happy hearts so full and bright Hearth's Warming Eve is here once again Oh, what a sight Look at the light All for tonight Hearth's Warming Eve is here once again
Clouds arranged so they're just so
Hearth's Warming Eve is here once again
Gonna make some awesome snow
Hearth's Warming Eve is here once again
The chill wind blows Making a show Snowflakes aglow
Hearth's Warming Eve is here once again
A day that's filled with songs to sing
Ding-dong, ding-dong-ding
Cakes and pastries we shall bring
Ding-dong, ding-dong-ding We're so busy making merry Windigos should all be wary
As our mighty voices carry
Hearth's Warming Eve is here once again
Decorations we shall make
Hearth's Warming Eve is here once again
Perfection you just cannot fake
Hearth's Warming Eve is here once again
Not one mistake Don't let that break Oh, goodness' sake!
Hearth's Warming Eve is here once a— Happy, happy Hearth's Warming Eve Happy, happy Hearth's Warming Eve Hearth's Warming Eve is here once again!
Hey, Starlight! Ready to celebrate your first Hearth's Warming Eve here in Ponyville?
I was thinking I might just skip it.
Skip Hearth's Warming Eve?!
I just find it all a little silly. It's mostly a day dedicated to presents and candy, isn't it?
And why would you deny yourself presents and candy? That's crazy talk!
I think what Spike means to say is Hearth's Warming is about more than presents and candy. It's a time to spend with friends and family when we celebrate a very important day in Equestria's history.
I think to most ponies, it's just an excuse for silly songs and fun, not a day to remember some old story.
Maybe you just haven't heard the right Hearth's Warming Eve story yet!
Earth ponies, Pegasi, and unicorns sing songs around a hearth to fight back an eternal winter caused by the mythical windigos? Ha! Every foal and filly knows that story.
Not that one. My favorite holiday story, "A Hearth's Warming Tale"!
Oh, I love that one!
This is the story of a powerful unicorn named Snowfall Frost, who hated Hearth's Warming Eve. It all began many moons ago in Canterlot...
[narrating] Every home in Canterlot was filled with holiday spirit. Every home... except one. It was said of Snowfall that she was almost as studied as Star Swirl the Bearded. Almost, since everypony knows that Star Swirl was an expert at everything from transfiguration, dimensional calibration, teleportation—
[narrating] We get it. Star Swirl's awesome.
[narrating] Right. The point is, Snowfall was also a powerful unicorn. She wanted to be perfect. Anything that got in the way of that was a waste of time.
[gasp] Well, that batch is ruined. Snowdash!
[narrating] Snowdash was Snowfall's loyal assistant.
What do you need?
Get this mess cleaned up. Those foolish ponies were ringing those blasted bells outside the window and I lost my concentration!
[under her breath] Whoa, ponies actually enjoying Hearth's Warming Eve. Where did they get that crazy idea?
Today is nothing to celebrate. Hearth's Warming Eve is a menace. A dangerous day for all of Equestria.
Dangerous?! It's awesome! It's the day we remember how unicorns, Pegasi, and Earth ponies came together in friendship to defeat the windigos!
That silly legend is the problem! Telling everypony that "singing songs and being nice" will solve anything? I've spent years studying magic, and that's not how it works.
I think you might be missing the point.
Work hard, learn, and use your skills to better Equestria. That's a worthy goal for any pony. [sarcastically] But, by all means, if you want to go home early, ignore all of the work you have, and spend the rest—
Sweet!
Ugh!
I hate Hearth's Warming Eve! All of Equestria would be better off if we just skipped the day altogether.
Happy Hearth's Warming, they say in the street Happy Hearth's Warming, they think they're so sweet Words said so often that they lack any meaning Why should I join in when I could be intervening?
Everypony loves this cursed holiday But would they be better off with it out of the way? Well, okay
Say goodbye to the holiday With my magic, I'll erase it The greatest gift that I give today And everypony will have to face it
No more little games for you to play After you say goodbye to the holiday
Goodbye, Hearth's Warming, you had a good run Goodbye, Hearth's Warming, it's over, you're done Finally set free from your forced celebrations No need to reply to your trite invitations
Calendar shorter by a single day Is my magic up to the test? Time to see, I can't delay
Say goodbye to the holiday Prepare the spell, no hesitation All memory shall fade away See Equestria's new transformation
No more shall anypony say Happy Hearth's Warming... [sinister laughter] ...after today!
After today...
Once the spell is cast, all of Equestria will be better off, and they'll have me to thank for it!
Wait a minute. Snowfall doesn't like Hearth's Warming Eve so she decides to cast a spell to get rid of it altogether? That seems a little extreme.
I think what Spike is trying to say is that everypony has their reasons for doing things. Even Snowfall. And if I could continue the story, we might just find out what they are.
Proceed.
Snowfall was all set to cast her spell that would erase Hearth's Warming Eve for all time...
[narrating] ...when a voice from the hearth caught her attention.
You sure you wanna go through with this?
Huh?! Who's there?!
The Spirit of Hearth's Warmin' Past, that's who. And you and me have got to have us a little chat.
A spirit?! [suspiciously] I didn't cast any spirit summoning spell. What are you doing here?
You don't think a spell like that would get by without some powerful forces noticin'? You've got our attention, Snowfall Frost, and we've got some pretty strong opinions on this spell of yours.
"We"?
They'll be along in a bit. For now, it's just you and me. Let's get a move on. We got a ton to see and barely any time to see it.
I'm not going anywhere. I've got a spell to cast, and I don't need a history lesson about Hearth's Warming Eve.
We aren't goin' to the past to learn about the holiday. We're goin' to learn about you.
As a young thing, life sure is somethin' You go makin' choices large and small Always growin' like a seedlin' And playin' is like dreamin' And before you know it, big and tall
And every little bitty choice you make Sends you down a path to who you are today So let's take a little trip down memory lane And see just what the past has to say
Aw, look how cute you were. Looks like you're not too upset it's Hearth's Warming Eve either.
The seeds of the past They grow pretty fast Just look at who you were back then The seeds, as they grow Look what they can show Reveal the truth time and again
Just what do you think you're doing, Snowfall?
Decorating the classroom for Hearth's Warming Eve, Professor Flintheart!
You said you wanted to learn to be a powerful unicorn, did you not?
I do!
And what is the way that one becomes a powerful unicorn?
[clears throat] Work hard, learn, and use your skills to better Equestria.
And how do these help you to learn magic?
I want to be strong enough to stop windigos and help ponies!
That's just a story we tell little ponies. Real magic takes time to learn.
It's your choice. Spend your time learning to become a powerful unicorn or play with your toys and make nothing of yourself.
Then some distress, words so careless Standin' there, you don't know what to do Feelin' helpless, you can't make it hurt less So you go and change your point of view
And in that moment, though you didn't know it Your defenses set up walls you built to last Leading to the pony you've become today And the spell you're about to cast It all comes from your past
The seeds of the past We grow up so fast Some hurts never go away
The seeds, as they grow This we can't let go All tied to this one holiday
[gasps] Spirit? What am I supposed to—
[reverberating] Snowfall Frost! It is I, the Spirit of Hearth's Warming Presents!
Um, don't you mean "Present", like the time?
No! Toys, Hearth's Warming doll... Here, want a cupcake?
Fine, "Presents". All of the pointless things ponies waste their time on.
Oh, Snowfall, it's not what the gift is that matters, it's what the gift means!
It doesn't mean anything. It's just stuff!
Exactly! Sometimes a cupcake means "I love you!" Or a toy means "Hi, how're you doing?" Sometimes a book means "Your mane looks amazing!" And sometimes a scarf means... Well, a scarf usually means you look cold. That one's easy.
I don't understand anything you're saying.
What's happening to you?!
My Spirit of Hearth's Warming Presents Sense is going off! That means a song is coming on!
Take a look at everything around you All the smells that surely will astound you Open up your heart, it will surround you In the magic of Hearth's Warming Eve
The little things that make it better Little ponies spreading cheer Give a toy, a hug, a sweater Memories that last all year
The present's always filled with presents Large, medium, and small Sometimes the most important things Aren't very big at all
What a party, there's so much to see here Can't believe you didn't want to be here You'd have had a blast, I guarantee here This is the spirit of Hearth's Warming Eve
Cider's flowing, this is living Come on and feel the beat Life is better when you're giving Each time you do it feels so sweet
The present's always filled with presents So come on, open your eyes Spend time with ponies just like you And watch your spirits rise
The present's always filled with presents Take a look around The reason for the holiday Is quite easily found Yes, the reason for the holiday Is quite easily found
And the reason is to be with your friends!
[singsong, as Pinkie Pie] And the reason is to be with your friends! [normal] What?
You know you're doing your Pinkie Pie voice, right?
I was not!
So, what happens next?
Well, the party was—
Wait! Can we take a quick break? I need to refill my cocoa.
[groans] Fine. But hurry up! We're almost to the best part!
[blows] Okay, I'm ready.
The party was in full swing.
Snowdash!
Hey, Merry.
Why, whatever is the matter, darling?
Was it the eggnog? Oh, I knew I put in too much cinnamon!
Oh, no, the eggnog was awesome, Flutterholly, I'm just mad at somepony who was complaining about how awful Hearth's Warming Eve is.
I don't suppose that pony's name starts with "Snow"?
And ends with "Frost"?
She said Hearth's Warming Eve is just an excuse to party, and we would all be better off spending time working to make Equestria a better place.
What does Snowfall think a better Equestria looks like?
Ponies working hard, learning, and using their abilities for the benefit of Equestria.
[muffled] It looks like we've got everything on Snowfall's list right here.
I think a perfect Equestria looks a lot like a Hearth's Warming Eve party.
Spirit? What do you mean? What's going to happen?!
Who are you?
I am the Spirit of Hearth's Warming Yet to Come.
Are you here to show me what future Hearth's Warming Eves are like?
No, for there are no more Hearth's Warming Eves for me to show.
Why not?
You will succeed in erasing the holiday, as you wished.
And what happens?
I see a cold wind blowing through I see days neither fun nor free I see a future caused by you I see a path not meant to be
The future should be filled with magic Dreams and wishes brought to life But the days ahead are dark and tragic No time for hope when all is strife
Whatever might have been All the dreams that ponies share Because of you, Snowfall Frost Now the future is a cold nightmare
Windigos?! They aren't real! It's just a little filly's story!
They are all too real, Snowfall, and your actions will allow them to return. The future of Equestria shall be bathed in a blanket of eternal snow!
There's still time!
Oh, my.
Snowfall Frost?
I was hoping I wasn't too late for the party? I brought gifts.
[spit-take] Boss?!
I was wrong earlier, about Hearth's Warming Eve. It's not all about singing and presents. The singing and presents are all about celebrating the ponies in our lives. The ponies we should listen to more often: our friends.
Wow.
Dragon toenail? Uh... thanks?
I was in a hurry. I'll do better next time.
Ha. You kidding? No one's ever given me dragon toenail before! It's awesome! Now come get some eggnog!
[narrating] And from then on, it was always said of all the Hearth's Warming Eve celebrations, Snowfall's was the Hearth's Warmingest.
The end.
Well, that's it! Thanks for letting me read you the story. Guess you can call it a night. Spike and I are heading downstairs, and if you wanted to, you'd be welcome to join us.
Welcome to the party! Happy Hearth's Warming, Starlight.
Happy Hearth's Warming, Twilight.
Hearth's Warming Eve is filled with presents Some take you by surprise A story shared by your good friends That makes your spirits rise
Sometimes you just let go of the past Enjoy the present while it lasts And really it's not that much to ask With good friends by your side
Now it's time to celebrate
Hearth's Warming Eve is here once again
All together, feeling great
Hearth's Warming Eve is here once again
Can hardly wait We'll party 'til late Our favorite date
Hearth's Warming Eve is here once a— Happy, happy Hearth's Warming Eve Happy, happy Hearth's Warming Eve Hearth's Warming Eve is here once again!
[panting] Come on! If we hurry, we can get there before the paper's even delivered to Rarity's house!
Maybe she won't read the article.
I'm pretty sure Rarity's gonna read a review of her new boutique in Manehattan.
I still can't believe we all just blabbed everything that happened to that reporter!
I just hope it doesn't end up being an article about how her friends almost ruined the opening.
I think you're all overreacting. Rarity's our friend. If anypony is gonna understand, it'll be her.
[grimly] I was wondering when all of you were going to show up.
[excitedly] Now we can all read the review together!
Um, I have an idea. How 'bout we don't read it?
What she means is, before you read it, we should probably tell you about—
No, no, darling. Please, no spoilers.
But—
No spoilers!
Now, is everypony ready to hear what I'm sure is a stellar review that describes in stunning detail exactly how each of you contributed to the successful opening of Rarity For You?
[clears throat, reading] "Many a pony has tried their hoof at joining the ranks of the elite fashion trendsetters currently ensconced in the boutiques of Manehattan's famed Saddle Row." [giggles, continues reading] "Some might say it's the ultimate achievement in Equestrian fashion, and never before has a reporter been granted such unfettered behind-the-scenes access until now!"
I wish it had been more fettered.
Oh, uh... [mutters] Ah! [reading] "I sat down with..." [giggles, continues reading] "...Rarity and her friends after the opening to get the inside scoop, and what a scoop it was!"
Okay, kid, ya successfully opened a shop in Manehattan and that's no mean feat! Most ponies might wonder what it feels like. Here's how it's gonna be: I'm gonna interview you and your friends so I can paint a picture of how it all came together. A word picture, mind you, not an actual picture. Any questions?
Well, I was wondering—
Let's get started! Ms. Rarity, you've got shops all over Equestria, but this was your first time trying to make it in the big city. What made ya think you could tackle it on your own?
Well, I wouldn't say all over Equestria. I just have two other boutiques: one in my hometown of Ponyville, and one in Canterlot. Uh, still, when I decided to open this one, I was nothing but confident.
Let's just say that if I could choose, I probably wouldn't do it that way again. Heh.
Well, it wasn't the funnest party ever...
It was a plum-puckered, pig-pushin' disaster!
After a lifetime of awesome, I think everypony's allowed to mess up every now and then, right?
Wait, are you writing this down?
Um, it didn't go exactly how I thought it would, but it, um, started out all right.
Welcome to Saddle Row, an entire street lined with the most fashionable boutiques in all of Equestria!
If it's supposed to be the most fashionable block of shops, where's Stinky Bottom's Discount Hat Emporium?
I suppose it didn't make the cut. [gasps] Here it is! Rarity For You!
Rarity, it's lovely. But are you sure you'll be ready to open tonight?
No need to fret over a mere moderate amount of preparation. My clothes arrive soon, my sales associate after that, and with a little... dusting, we'll be ready for the grand opening tonight.
Mr. Stripes owns the building. He's a very pleasant landlord. Although he can be pushy at times. [beat] Okay, all the time.
Mr. You've met my daughter, the apple of my ear, the hay in my hoof? You will let her work with you.
[chuckles nervously] It's just, I'm dreadfully busy preparing for tonight's grand opening, as you can see.
Mr. There are only two things I love more than being pushy. One is my daughter. The other is miniature doll furniture. And I would sell my entire mini-furniture collection to make my daughter happy. You understand?
I'm sorry. I just don't think it's going to be possible.
Mr. Let me say another way... Hire her or I raise rent until you no can afford!
Oh, uh, welcome aboard.
[loudly] First idea! Instead of clothes, we sell glow-in-the-dark teeth! Like this. [chomp, chomp] But they glow in the dark!
Glow-in-the-dark teeth! What was she thinking?!
Aah! Fluttershy, your assistance is required in the stock room, posthaste!
Aw, hello.
But what are they doing here?
Smoky made too much noise eating garbage, so Softpad's mother made them move out of the trashcan.
Then Smoky Jr. found a nice home in the crawl space behind the building. But Mr. Stripes demolished it, so they were temporarily camped out in the back until they found a new place to live.
No, no, no! I can't have a family of rubbish-scented raccoons living in my boutique!
Uh, did you hear that?
[annoyed] Heh. Turns out there's a Club Pony Party Palace upstairs.
[excitedly] Turns out there's a Club Pony Party Palace upstairs!
I'm sorry. Could you please ask her to turn it down? Could you ask her to turn it down, please? [pleading] Turn it down, please! [sobbing] Oh, please!
Ugh! Foals today listen to their so-called "music" far too loud. I realize that makes me sound like an old mare. But this is business!
I wish we were having as much fun as they are.
Well, sweeping can be fun, too. [to the beat] Sweep, sweep, sweep, sweep. Sweep, sweep, sweep, sweep, sweep...
Only Twilight could make a dance remix about sweeping. I mean, how lame is that?
Yeah. It wasn't even catchy.
Nope.
[to the beat] Sweep, sweep, sweep, sweep...
Twilight Sparkle, Rainbow Dash, [to the beat] Sweep, sweep, sweep, sweep, sweep, sweep, sweep, sweep, sweep, sweep, sweep...
Apparently, DJ Pon-3 has a residency at the Party Palace upstairs, but security won't let me speak to her.
Aah! What in the name of Celestia was that?!
You know how most stores have a little jingle-bell when the door opens? Ahem. I thought we should have something with a little more pizzazz! So, I installed one of Daddy's antique horns.
[sighs] We'll have to do something about that, after I think of a way to quiet down that music. And after I finish designing the window display!
Gesundheit! Oh, Miss Pommel! I'm so glad to see you! Now, as the sole sales associate at Rarity For You, I hate to add to your already overflowing plate of responsibilities, but it looks as though we have just a tad more to do before tonight than I thought.
Actually, I— [sneezes] I can't work tonight.
Oh? Why not?
Feel better, my sweet. We'll manage without you... somehow. And we'll manage glowing teeth and car horns and disorganized clothes and dance music! Am I forgetting anything?
[sobbing] What am I going to do?!
Well, opening a store in Manehattan is a pretty big deal. It's natural that Rarity would be a little stressed about how it was going. Since it wasn't going well. Still, I think she handled it all right.
My dream is doomed! Doomed, I tell you! Doomed!
I know things haven't gone perfectly so far, but we've done this kind of thing before. If we all work together—
I appreciate the offer, but this is Manehattan. To make it in the fashion scene here, everything has to be perfect. The perfect location! The perfect clothes! The perfect opening!
Maybe we should just postpone.
Postpone?! Darling, tonight is the last night of the fall season. If we don't open tonight, it won't be...
[sighs] Perfect.
Yes. I know what needs to be done. I just need more of me! Oh, how I wish I could make copies of myself!
Yeah... Making copies of yourself always sounds like a great idea, but before you know it, you're locked in a room with fifty Pinkie Pies watching paint dry.
We can do this. And we can stay true to your vision.
You'd do that? Fluttershy, you'll handle those... strong-smelling raccoons for me?
Of course.
Leave Plaid Stripes to me. I'll handle her and her, uh, "good ideas".
Ooh, ooh, ooh! And I can go upstairs to that nonstop party and have tons of fun and eat some cake and set off party cannons and—
And then make them be quiet.
I'm pretty sure I know somepony who wouldn't mind organizing this merchandise shipment for you. [beat] I'm talking about myself. [beat] [pleading] Oh, please, let me organize it!
This all sounds splendid, but I don't even have a single employee, and I'll need the best of the best.
Leave the hiring to me.
Oh! This is it, my dears. If you can handle these problems, I'll focus on the designs for the front window display. We'll show Manehattan what Rarity For You is all about! Oh, what would I do without you?
What would she do without us? Huh. Lemme think. [imitating Rarity] "Darlings, I'm absolutely doomed, doomed, doomed!" [laughs, normal voice] Heh, I sound just like her!
Hey, you're not writing this down, are you?
Now for the perfect window display. Hmm.
Oh, I can't really stop a super fun party in the middle of mega-happy fun times, can I?! Oh, what would Rarity want?!
Keep that party going 'til the break of dawn!
Really?
Indubitably! And as for the roof, get jiggy! Raise it, Pinkie! Raise it like you've never raised it before!
Oh! If you say so!
Oh, please, Pinkie Pie. Never in a million years would I say such balderdash!
Oh.
Obviously, DJ Pon-3 only plays the sickest of beats. I just wouldn't want her to miss out on the coolest new music straight from the back-alley underground, zip-zap party scene! [to DJ Pon-3] I'd play the whole thing if I were you, no matter what other ponies think.
Awww.
Rarity For You is only hiring the best of the best. And to me, that means the fastest. Now, uh, before we begin, uh... [to herself] Am I doing this right? What would Rarity want? [to applicants] New plan!
Who can be the first one to tell me what fabric this is?
That's organza.
Are you sure?
It's a thin, plain weave. Sheer fabric traditionally made from silk, so... yeah.
I don't know the first thing about clothes. Pretty much all I can do is look at something and tell you if it's clothes or not. This chair? Not clothes.
See if you can keep up with me here. What are all clothes made of?
Uh, fabric?
Bingo! But not in this store. Uh-uh. Not anymore.
Oh, no?
Two words for you: "spoon clothes". All our clothes will be made of spoons!
[sighs, to herself] What would Rarity want? [to Plaid Stripes] You know, I like you, Plaid Stripes. If it were up to me, we'd have a spoon clothes store right next to Stinky Bottom's Discount Hat Emporium. But it ain't up to me, so the answer is no.
Personally, I think spoon clothes ain't such a bad idea. Useful, too. Eatin' soup, stirrin' gumbo, diggin' little holes.
There. Perfect. Although, what would Rarity want? Maybe she wouldn't like it done by color. Guess I have to start over!
A window display is the first thing customers see, and if they like it, they'll walk inside and experience the glory that is my boutique.
[stammers] I don't know which one of you to hire! Just... keep guessing fabrics!
Daddy, Rarity's friend doesn't like my ideas!
Mr. Spoon clothes is good idea!
Oh, no! Not a shopping music mashup!
I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry!
How's it—
Ooh!
Hello? The door appears to be stuck!
Yep. We're workin' on it!
Hmm. Well, shouldn't let this time go to waste.
How did this happen?
I shut down the party.
I told Plaid Stripes no.
I asked the raccoons to leave.
I asked a lot of fabric questions.
Pinkie Pie, Applejack, Just like I thought Rarity would want!
Rarity asked us to help her with everything because she knows all of us so well. [to Fluttershy] She knows how much you care for animals. She'd trust you to solve the problem your way. [to the others] Maybe we should all do the same. Doing this our way is what Rarity wants. It's not too late. Let's all dig in and we can fix this.
Before Rarity finds out how bad we messed up.
I'm sorry I asked you to leave. The place is yours if you wanna stay. Though I would like to ask you all just one favor.
I'm sorry I made you play that un-fun, super-boring music. But if you're up for it, I have an idea to make the party even better!
Okay, I don't get fabric, but I do get speed. And I need somepony fast enough to help all the customers Rarity's gonna have. So... first one to the river and back gets the job! [beat] It's a race! Go!
[clears throat] Mr. Stripes, I owe your daughter an apology. She's got good ideas, and I should give 'em a chance. So here's what I'm thinkin'.
Perfect!
[awkwardly] Wow, looks like we fixed that door just in time!
[gasps] Oh! What's all this?
The whole place organized by style, cross-referenced by size, and reverse-indexed by fabric. She'll be able to find anything in three seconds flat! It was some of my best work.
Oh! I knew I could count on you! All right... I suppose this is the moment of truth...
Rarity For You is now open!
Oh, dear. I wasn't quite prepared for such a crowd. How will I handle them all?
My name's Blue Bobbin. I'll be your personal shopping assistant this evening.
Right this way, everypony, and one of our talented salesponies can help you out!
Honestly, they were all pretty slow. But they finished the race. Plus they knew a lot more about fabric than I did. So, I hired them all!
The way I see it, Rarity designs fashion, DJ Pon-3 designs beats. What better combination than a boutique/dance club?
After a quick bath, they were more than willing to help!
"Waxton": Ah, a blue corn reduction with shallot confit! But how can I possibly enjoy it without a—
Spoon?
Heh. Toldja spoon clothes ain't such a bad idea.
"Waxton": [sips] Mmm! Exquisite! This is the most whimsical and wonderfully fashionable boutique I've ever seen!
[reading] "In the end, Rarity's grand opening was a smashing success! True, it got off to a rocky start, but somehow this rag-tag group of ne'er-do-wells..." [to ponies] Oh, heavens, I think he means you. [continues reading] "...came together and created the perfect boutique. A vision of Rarity combined with the expertise of her friends! This reporter, for one, is a believer." [to ponies] Why didn't you tell me there were so many problems?
We all figured you had enough on your mind.
And we didn't want you to think that the opening wasn't perfect.
[giggles] "Ne'er-do-wells" or not, I know I can always count on all of you. And nothing could be more perfect than that.
Um... Miss Rarity? Eh, how much longer are you planning to stay in here, darling?
Oh, dear. Is somepony else waiting?
Oh, no, no. I just don't want you to get all... What is word? Pruney.
Oh. Uh, well, I'm just waiting for Applejack. It's been so long since we've had a relaxing day at the spa together. I'm quite certain she'll be along any moment.
Hey, there, Rarity. I really tried to get here earlier. I just can't believe how much time my chores are takin' up these days. At least now we'll finally get to spend some quality spa time together. Right?
Okay, fillies, that's it. We are closing up for the day.
Aw, shucks, Rarity. I guess I missed the whole day. I sure am sorry.
Me, too.
Hi, Rarity!
Morning, Twilight, Spike. Good heavens, that's a lot of empty pie plates.
Uh... yeah. We were just heading to pick up some fresh pies. Heh. I don't know why we keep running out at the castle. [nervous laugh] What are you gonna get?
Applejack, actually. Although, I'm quite sure she'll be too busy once again.
What do you mean?
Oh, nothing. It's just that Applejack and I haven't had one of our spa days in ages.
You two really should set aside some time.
Darling, I have been trying for moons! But Applejack is so busy these days, it's next to impossible.
Wow. I didn't realize Applejack had so much to do.
Hey, Applejack! Another order of pies, please.
Sure thing, Spike!
Aah! Dah! Whoa-oa-oa!
I don't suppose those pies are the last chore on the schedule for today?
Gah! Land's sakes! Is it time for our spa day already? Rarity, why don't you go on ahead and I'll meet ya there?
Oh! Please, Applejack, let's not kid ourselves!
Well, it ain't 'cause I don't wanna. But the work on the farm has just been takin' up more and more of my time.
I hate seeing you two not spending time together. Can't you get somepony else in your family to take over for a bit?
[sighs] Wish I could. But Granny, Big Mac, and Apple Bloom all have chores of their own. And today, they're all busy takin' the harvest to market.
I know we're not farmers, but I'm sure Spike and I could handle things for a little while.
Maybe...
Is there one chore we could do?
Well... I suppose if you two got started on feedin' the pigs, I could maybe leave for an hour.
Oooh! An hour of spa perfection? I can work with that!
Perfect! You head out to the spa, and Spike and I'll take care of things here.
Whoa! Dah! Whoa!
Uh, yeah. We totally got everything covered.
[sighs] Okay. This list pretty much covers everything you need to know to feed the pigs. But, uh, maybe I should go over it with you just to...
Applejack, please. If there's a list involved, I am one hundred percent on top of it.
Uh, right.
And don't worry about things here! Spike and I have totally got this! I mean, it's just feeding the pigs. How hard could it be?
Uh, Twilight?
Whoa.
I'm glad we're doin' this, Rarity. I've been puttin' work before our spa time for too long. I know we've only got an hour, but I can't wait to have a steam.
A steam is just the start. I know exactly what we'll do, and an hour will be perfect.
Okay, Spike, ready with that list?
Ready.
Let's do this!
[reading] "Step one: open the gate."
Okay. [reading] "Step two: close the gate."
Huh?
Mm. That's what it says.
[reading] "Step three: walk away."
"Walk away"? Really?
[intonation of "I don't know"] Mmm.
I just hope Twilight and Spike can handle things until I get back.
Now, Applejack, if we are really to enjoy this time together, you simply must give yourself over to the idea that you are off-duty and try to relax.
I know. You're right. I really am glad we're doin' this. And as long as it's only an hour, I'm sure everythin' will be just fine.
Exactly. Now kindly step this way. Relaxation awaits.
[gasps] Rainbow Dash! What are you doing here?!
Yeah. I didn't think spa treatments were your thing exactly.
What?!
Oh, they're totally not. At least, not the froufrou kind.
Ah.
Huh.
Yeah, I, uh, I think I tweaked something at Wonderbolts practice the other day. I just came in for a deep tissue sports massage.
"Lavender Essence": Ah, Miss Dash, I am so sorry, but we are running just a tad behind, and we are not quite ready to start your pampered muscle massage and indulgent hooficure just yet.
Oh! [chuckles nervously] I-I'm pretty sure that wasn't what I signed up for.
"Lavender Essence": But they are your usual.
And it seems like you're really busy today anyway! I'll just come back tomorrow. [to Rarity and Applejack] Uh, see you two later! Have fun! [to Lavender Essence, whispered] But put me down for the same thing.
[chuckles] Too bad Rainbow Dash just hates those "froufrou" spa treatments. She could have joined us for a nice steam. Hoo-wee! I can't wait.
[laughs] Indeed. Although, if they couldn't fit Dashie in, I wonder just how far behind things are running. Obviously, we're on a very tight schedule.
[grunts, gasps] Well, maybe not everypony is waiting for the steam room.
Oh, no. No, that's exactly what we're waiting for. Oh, I hope you're not in a hurry.
So everypony here wants a steam bath?
Well, the solution is obvious. We'll simply have to start our short time at the spa with something else.
[scoffs] Nothin' doin'. I came here to have a steam, and that's just what I'm gonna get!
But, but, it'll take most of our hour just to get through this line!
RRRRarity! My favorite customer! Mwah! Mwah! And Appleyack? Well, it certainly has been a long time since you two were here together! So lovely to have you back.
Well, I wish I could say the same.
Yes, the wait time for the steam room certainly has been getting worse lately. But I'm sure we'll be able to accommodate your usual treatments.
Not without my steam!
Apparently, Applejack won't consider starting her time at the spa without a steam, and we only have an hour.
That is a problem.
Applejack, where are you going?
Um, why are y'all just standin' here?
Ugh! Just waiting for the steam to build up.
Without steam, a steam room's just a room, and I've got plenty of those at home. Because I live in a mansion.
It has been taking longer for the steam to reach the Ponyville Day Spa quality. We even had to add a warm towel service. So sorry for the delay, everypony. Please help yourselves.
So if you're not gettin' enough steam, that must mean there's not enough hot water.
Ooh, Applejack, honestly, can't we just start with a hooficure? We're going to run out of time.
Hmm.
Ha! Now what do we have here?
The laundry room, of course. And at this point, I'm considering soaking my hooves in one of the machines so my time here isn't a total loss!
The Ponyville Day Spa prides itself on sanitary conditions, and fresh linens are integral part.
Well, sure, but have you always run every single one of these here machines full bore all day, every day?
"Birch Bucket": The answer is no. But ponies sure do love the warm towel service.
Hmmm.
"Birch Bucket": Eh, you are all wanting towel?
Looks to me like you don't have any left.
"Birch Bucket": Well, like I said, warm towels are big hit.
I think I figured out the problem. You've got a small leak, and that means the steam takes just a little longer to build up. And while ponies wait, they get cold. Cold ponies start wrappin' themselves in towels, and all those dirty towels have to be cleaned because Ponyville Day Spa prides itself on cleanliness.
"Birch Bucket": Eh, what?
Basically, losin' steam makes you use more towels. That means you do more laundry, which uses up the hot water you need to make more steam, so the problem just keeps gettin' worse.
Ah! I had no idea.
Wonderful. Now that we've solved the great steam mystery, we can finally get back to our... significantly less than an hour of relaxation.
Rarity, are you kiddin'? I can't just leave things like this. I'm gonna need my tools.
Ahh!
Whew! Now that that leak's fixed, ponies won't get so cold they use up all those towels! And without all that laundry, there'll be plenty of hot water for all the steam anypony could want!
"Birch Bucket": And I only have to be doing vash once a day!
Wow, Appleyack! Have you ever considered a career in the spa industry? I'm sure I can find something for you.
[laughs] No, thanks. I'm just relieved I can finally relax in the steam. What do you say, Rarity?
It sounds lovely, Applejack, but... unfortunately, you spent so much time fixing the steam room, we don't have any time left to use it. Honestly, how in Equestria did it never occur to you to check for leaks?
There's just so many other things to worry about! I suppose ve get used to the way things are, and ve don't realize there vas problem.
You obviously need an outside eye to evaluate the situation. It's lucky for you Applejack is too stubborn to relax!
Uh, I'm sorry, Rarity. We'll just have to do this another day. Twilight and Spike should be done feedin' the pigs by now.
Twilight is a very capable pony. I'm sure she can figure out what to do next.
Look, I know Twilight's a princess and an Alicorn, but she isn't a farmer. I've been doin' farm work my whole life, and I'm not sure it's somethin' you can just "figure out".
Of course. [gasps] Why don't we pop back so you could explain to Twilight what to do next, and then we'll come back here and pick up where we left off?
Well, I suppose I could try... assumin' everythin' went well so far.
[laughing] Oh, Applejack, honestly! How could it not?
Wouldn't it be easier to just fly?
I'm sorry, Rarity, but I think I'm gonna have to finish these chores myself.
Twilight, darling! How in the world did you end up there?
Spike and I were just trying to follow Applejack's list as closely as possible.
Mmmh... Maybe not the best plan.
I'm sorry, Applejack, but we never even got started feeding the pigs.
That's alright, Twilight. I know you did your best. I guess a list can't really capture all the ways I have of doin' things.
At least you two got to spend some time at the spa together.
Yeah, that must've been super relaxing!
Well, if watching Applejack fix plumbing counts as relaxing, then yes.
What about your hour of spa perfection?
As it turns out, the Ponyville Day Spa had a few problems with their steam room, and somepony refused to relax until she had fixed them.
I'm sorry, but I just couldn't let those spa ponies go another minute puttin' up with problems they didn't even know they had! Somehow they just got used to a huge bottleneck of ponies standin' around waitin'. An' I took one good look at that spa jam, and I knew I had to do somethin'! Sometimes the simplest things can just derail a whole operation. [babbles] Whether it's a leaky pipe or doin' too much laundry. You can't just stick to the same old way of doin' things and expect them to get better. [clucking] I mean, thinkin' you can is just plumb ridiculous. Right? [short laugh] It's funny when you realize the extra work they were doin' was actually makin' things worse!
I mean, I guess it's possible to get stuck in a routine where you're doin' all this extra stuff and not realize it, but I can't for the life of me think of how! [beat] Why are y'all starin' at me like that?
Um... Are you certain everything you just did is entirely necessary to feed the pigs?
What? Of course! Why would I be doin' it if it weren't? See, this gate here used to squeak so loud, the pigs would run to the other side of the pen and never come out! So I open and close it to let them know it's safe.
But it doesn't squeak anymore.
Of course not! I fixed that ages ago. Then I realized puttin' a little fright into 'em got 'em all hustlin' out of the pen.
They don't look scared to me.
Well, no. They got used to it. Which is why I started doin' the chicken dance! To show 'em that if they didn't get to eatin' their food, the chickens would. 'Course, bein' a chicken, I couldn't very well open the gate. Gettin' the food bucket to spill into the trough was just a happy accident because one time I left it there by mistake.
Uh, Applejack? It seems like everything you're doing is to fix things that aren't really problems anymore.
Well, I'll be...
Hmmm... Maybe it isn't so hard to get stuck doing extra work after all.
Huh. I wonder if I've been doin' that around here with anythin' else.
Well, there's only one way to find out!
[sighs] Thanks, y'all. I guess I just got so used to doin' everythin' a certain way, I didn't realize there were any problems.
Having a friend look at what you're doing with an outside eye can really help!
Mm-hmm! And I suppose if it weren't for our unsuccessful time at the spa, none of us would've realized it.
Well, now that your chores are streamlined, what are you gonna do with all the extra time?
I think I have a few ideas.
[sighs] Think you can come up with enough things for us to do now that we have more time to relax?
Oh, please. I could plan a week's worth of treatments!
Heh. Well, let's just start with the rest of the day for now. After all the work we just did on the farm, I am ready for some serious relaxation!
[sighs] Thanks for letting me know there was an opening. I don't know if I could make it without my pampered muscle massage.
Don't vorry about it. Shall I put you down for another one tomorrow?
Oh, absolutely! Sometimes a girl just has to pamper herself, am I right?
You certainly are!
[gasps] [stammering] Oh! Hey! I was just, uh, uh...
[giggles] Don't worry, Rainbow Dash. We were just heading in for some pampering ourselves. You could always join us.
That is, if you don't mind sufferin' through one or two "froufrou" treatments.
Uh... I suppose I could take it. You know, for you ponies.
Mrs. We're so happy you could come have lunch with your father and me, Fluttershy.
I'm so glad you asked.
And it was super awesome of you to invite me too! Things have been so busy with the Wonderbolts lately, it's great to get a chance to relax someplace quiet.
Mr. That's exactly what I intend to do now that I've retired. In fact, I converted the back house to showcase my cloud collection. I have my clouds, your mom has her flowers, you've got your animals, and your brother...
Mrs. He's matured a lot since then.
Mr. Actually, it's funny you bring Zephyr up...
Oh, no! Not again!
Mrs. It's just for a little while, dear. 'Til he gets back on his hooves.
Wait, you don't mean—!
Guess who's home! That's right, big sis, it's your one and only favorite little brother, moi.
Hi, Flutterbutter! How's the bestest big sister ever? Hey, where's the love? How about a little excitement to see your baby brother?
I'm just surprised. When you left, you said mane therapy was your calling.
Oh, it is, sis, it is. You would not believe how much stress ponies hold in their manes. Everything gets limp and unmanageable. No offense, but brushing alone won't solve the problem.
What went wrong?
Nothing went wrong, per se. It's just the powers that be were so locked into their required styles, and you know me. I've got my own style! And I think they were a little threatened.
Mrs. O-Oh, this is... lovely, dear.
Ugh.
Welllll, if it ain't Rainbows "The Best Flyer There Ever Was" Dash!
[flatly] Oh, this ought to be good.
Sorry, I shouldn't tease you. I know the whole super awesome flyer bit's just to impress me.
Still, thanks for showing up for my homecoming. It's, it's sweet.
I kinda thought there'd be more ponies here. I mean, what about your party planner friend, um... Sprinkle Pie! She could've turned this into a real house partay, am I right? I mean, this place could use it. [singsong] Drab!
Mrs. Heh. I-I, eh...
Mr. We have been meaning to redecorate...
Dad, please. When I get all my stuff back in here, you won't even remember what this boring old place looked like!
[whispering] Um, Mom, Dad, can I talk to you for a second?
Mrs. [sighs] What is it, honey?
I'm not so sure letting Zephyr move back home is a good idea. I know you both want to help, but don't you remember last time?
Mrs. Zephyr's just trying to find his place, dear.
[sighs] I know. It just seems like his place always ends up being your place. And then he sort of makes you do everything for him!
Mr. Well, we may not be as bold as you, Fluttershy, but don't you worry. We know how to stand up for ourselves.
And they were all like, "We love your free spirit, Zeph! And it would be wrong to cage that! Go follow your dreams!"
Zeph was just telling me all about the ins and outs of mane therapy school.
It's all so political. I just could not take it!
Well, maybe if you stuck with it for more than a few weeks...
Sorry, sis, but when something's not the right fit, this pony's gotta fly!
[yawns] Anyway, good talk, Rainbows. I am so touched you came to see me, really. I hate to deprive you of my presence, but this breeze needs his Z's.
You know it's the middle of the day, right?
I know. [maracas in background] Siesta! I'm just gonna assume you made up my room the way I like it, right, Mom? Oh, I almost forgot! All my stuff is out front. Wanna grab that for me, Pops? [short laugh] Thanks.
[sighs] Same old Zeph.
I know you weren't expecting to see your brother, but you've been kind of quiet, even for you.
I'm sorry, but I am just so... so... peeved right now! [gasps] Excuse my language!
Rainbow Dash! Fluttershy! It's me, Pinkie Pie! Your friend!
Oh, um, sorry about that.
We just had lunch with Fluttershy's parents, and you'll never guess who showed up.
Ooh! Mayor Mare? Cranky Doodle Donkey? Cheese Sandwich? Ms. Harshwhinny?!
Zephyr Breeze.
Oh, that makes more sense.
And from the look on your face, I'm guessin' it's for another one of his "extended stays"?
She's a bit peeved.
Zephyr's my brother, and I love him. But he's never learned to do anything for himself. I don't know why my parents keep letting him trot all over them!
Well, if your parents won't stand up for themselves, maybe you need to stand up for them.
You know, you're right!
Zephyr Breeze!
Oh, hey, sis. Come to see me work my magic and turn this place from drab to fab, huh? Well, watch and learn!
Can't you see what you're doing?!
Yeah! I'm getting rid of this old stuff so I can turn the backhouse into my art studio! I've decided I'm gonna be a sculptor!
I'm talking about Mom's flowers!
She's gonna move them so I can have my meditation patio here. She loves replanting stuff. Don't you, Mom?
And Dad's been collecting his favorite bits of cloud from the factory since before you were born.
Mr. The very best from every production run since my first day on the job. Ah!
Mr. [sighs] But why hold onto the past really?
You can't just fly in and change everything Mom and Dad have built here.
But this is the only place big enough for my studio/meditation garden. Ooh! Unless I do it in the living room!
[to her parents] I know speaking up for yourself can be hard, believe me, but Zephyr will never stand on his own if he can lean on you.
Don't be so dramatic, sis! Mom and Dad just wanna let me be me! Right? I can do plenty on my own.
I agree. Which is why you should move out.
Oh. Well... I mean, I-I totally would, but... I don't think that's what Mom and Dad want! It's not, is it?
Mrs. Ehhh...
Mr. You know we love you, son, but your sister has a point.
[tearing up] Sure. I mean, I really just came back here to keep you guys company, but... whatever's best for the family. I just... I just gotta grab a few essentials.
Mrs. And... y-you definitely have somewhere else to go?
Of course! There's plenty of ponies who'd love for a little breeze to blow their way...
So... where's Zeph gonna go now?
I'm not sure. Oh, I hope I did the right thing...
Are you kidding? One hundred percent!
[singsong] Hey, sis!
Your new roomie's here!
Okay, maybe like seventy percent.
Um, Zephyr. When Mom and Dad told you to find someplace else to live, I don't think they meant here.
Well, it's not their house, so by definition, it's someplace else. Am I right, Rainbows? Stop oogling me and help settle this.
[sighs] You know what? I totally forgot that I promised to help Pinkie Pie... sprinkle... something.
You said you had plenty of places to go!
Ehhhh...
[sighs] Fine. You can stay here—
You're the best! We're gonna have so much fun.
On one condition.
Totally. Anything.
You have to get a job.
Cracking the whip, huh? You always were kind of bossy.
[through gritted teeth] Zephyr Breeze...
Kidding! Get a job. Absolutely.
[yawns] Where are we goin' so early? You have no idea how bad morning sun is for your mane.
Remember how we talked about you getting a job?
It was just yesterday, and it's totally on my to-do list, but you can't expect to find something befitting my awesomeness overnight.
I thought you might say that.
So I did it for you.
What?!
These fabrics all need to be dyed those colors. Do you think you can handle that?
[muttering] Um, I don't know...
You get started while Fluttershy and I head to the store for more supplies. Ta-ta!
Good luck!
Thanks for giving my brother a job. I just hope he's up to the task.
Oh, darling, dyeing fabric is the simplest thing!
You just dip cloth in a bo—
[humming to himself] Rarity, you're back!
What did you do?
Since you talk to animals all the time, I just figured it runs in the family, so why not outsource this stuff, you know?
Turns out the animal communication thing isn't genetic.
Zephyr, I asked you to do this job! Not to pawn it off on innocent woodland creatures!
Okay, I guess you have some feelings about this. But you should know it's basically your cat's fault for walking by and giving me the idea. But I'm actually kinda into this look!
So I guess what I'm saying is... you're welcome?
[frustrated stuttering] Zephyr, this is just unacceptable!
Wow. I guess I know when my efforts aren't appreciated.
Ugghh!
Whoa! Those are tall!
I'm glad you noticed, because they're your new job.
Wha? [to Fluttershy] You said you were taking me to tea with the princess!
Actually, I said I was going to tea with the princess. You're going to work.
Sis, c'mon!
Don't worry, Zephyr, it'll be easy. I just need a Pegasus pony to fly up and wipe each window down from top to bottom.
And I'm here to make sure you do it right.
Wow, Zephyr! This looks amazing!
Uh, you know, like you said, it was easy!
Where's Spike?
Up here!
You were supposed to supervise, not do all the work!
I was supervising! And then Zephyr asked me about different cleaning techniques and which one was best, and if I could— Hey! I did all the work!
Don't let him fool you. Old Spike is quite the taskmaster.
Oh, come on, sis. I had to ask Spike to make sure I was doing it right.
You didn't do it at all! [inhales] Well, I guarantee there won't be any fooling around on the next job.
Next job?
That's right, Zeph! You're coming with me!
You don't have to come up with some excuse to hang out with me, Rainbows! Let's just go for a fly and see where the day takes us.
[frustrated sigh] We're going to Wonderbolts Headquarters. And I am gonna give you a job so simple and straightforward, not even you can weasel your way out of it! [quickly] And the second you try, I'm gonna zap you with a storm cloud! Got it?!
Oh, I got it. I can already feel the electricity between us.
Rainbow Dash is crazy, okay?! She expects me to do stuff right when she asks me to do it! It's insane!
So you just quit? Again?
Escaped is more like it. Besides, what was I supposed to do?
Keep trying? Finish something for once? Maybe that way, you'd actually find something you like to do!
That all sounds fine for your friends, but it's just not me.
Then I'm sorry, Zephyr, but I don't think you can live here.
Fine! I'll just go live in the woods like my foreponies before me! Guess the only breeze this zephyr can count on is his own!
Aw, cheer up, Fluttershy. I know it was hard, but you did the right thing. You couldn't let Zephyr pull the same stuff on you that he's always pulled on your folks!
I guess so...
Oh, hello, Constance!
Oh? Oh, dear.
See, Wigford? The Breeze needs nopony! We've got food, shelter. Just need to put the old kettle on...
Come on, sticky-sticky, make with the sparks!
Ugh! What's a pony got to do to find a decent stick around here?!
I know he needs to learn to do things for himself, but...
Oh... I can't let him live like this.
Actually, I don't think he'd make it through the night.
[gasps] Fluttershy! Hey! I was just, um, cozying up in my sleeping bag! Ready to call it an early night! [mock-tired] Such an exhausting day, y'know?
It's noon.
You know me! [maracas in background] Siesta...
Ugh... I can't do this. I can't do anything.
Zephyr, you're smart and talented. You could do anything if you just tried!
And what if I give everything I have and still fail? Honestly, I think it's better not to try at all.
But then you won't ever do anything.
I don't expect you two to understand. I mean, when have you ever failed? You've literally helped save Equestria, like, a dozen times.
And I was worried that I'd fail every time! Sometimes you have to do things, even though you might fail.
But failing is the worst!
And quitting doesn't feel much better, does it?
No.
So here's the deal: You can come back with me, but you have to do exactly what I say. No exceptions.
[resigned] I will literally do anything you ask me if it means I don't have to stay here.
Okay, you know what you have to do, right?
Beg for help, then quit when I get frustrated. Just kidding! Total opposite of that. Got it.
You think he can do it?
Everypony has times in their lives When their hearts are filled with doubt
Frustration builds up inside And it makes you want to shout
But if you just take that first step The next one will appear
And you find you can walk, then run Then fly...! Into the stratosphere
You've got to give it your best So you can pass the test Give it everything that you've got
And we know you can win You just have to begin Have to give it your very best shot
There are times when you want to give up When you think that you can't go on
But if you fight through with all of your might You will find that you can't go wrong That you could do it all along
Everypony has times in their lives When their hearts are filled with doubt
But if you just give it your all You'll start to work it out
And I know I can't give up too soon Get myself in the zone And I find I can walk, then run
[Fluttershy, Zephyr, and Rainbow Dash] Then fly...!
I can do it on my own
You can do it on your own
I can do it on my own I can do it on my own
I did it! I actually finished something! By myself!
And it looks exactly like it's supposed to.
I knew you could do it, Zephyr.
I didn't! But I do now. Thanks for believing in me, sis.
That's what big sisters are for.
So, Zeph, now that you've accomplished this, what's next?
Anything I want! I mean, the sky's the limit, right?
But, y'know... I've got some baby steps in mind.
Thanks for dinner, Mr. and Mrs. Shy! Ha! It was great as usual.
Mrs. Thank you, dear, for not giving up on Zephyr. After all these years of pining for him, it must be so satisfying to see him on the right track.
Huh...?
Have you heard from Zephyr? Is he doing well?
Mr. I tell you, he's a brand new pony! So full of drive and determination.
Heh. That's great.
[singsong] Guess who graduated from mane therapy training?
Hah, awesome!
Mr. Congratulations, son!
Mrs. You look so handsome!
I'm so proud of you, Zephyr.
It was only a matter of time before they recognized my true genius! But actually doing the work probably helped, and I wouldn't have if it weren't for you.
Oh, I just gave you some encouragement. You did this on your own.
And honestly, right now I feel like I can do anything... except find a place. I can still crash here for a few days, right?
As you've all probably noticed, it's been quite some time since the map has sent us on a mission of friendship.
Yeah! Ever since Starlight messed with it to go back in time and try to change history!
Yes. Since then. But, as part of her studies, Starlight's been assisting me. And together, we think we've come up with a spell that can get it working again!
[simultaneously] Ooh, well done!
Now without further ado...
Fluttershy and Twilight in Appleloosa! No, me and Rainbow Dash in Las Pegasus! No, Rainbow Dash and Twilight in Yakyakistan! No, Twilight and Twilight in Twilight's castle! Oh. Me! Me! Oh, me... and Rarity! Ooh! I hope it's some faraway place that nopony has gone before!
[chuckles nervously] Well, maybe not too far away. An adventure somewhere that has modern conveniences would be preferable. [gasps] Canterlot! This is wonderful! I can check the boutique! Perhaps there'll be some social events that we can attend! [gasps] I'll have to pack extra outfits! What will I wear?!
Y'know, some ponies get excited about the silliest things.
[sighs] Now then, as far as finding a friendship problem, I suggest we start at the castle and begin to question the proper—
Oh, Rarity, you don't find a friendship problem. It finds you. We just need to go with the flow, and eventually, kablam! We get friendship problem'd right between the eyes.
Well, this is a team effort, so if you feel we should go with the flow, then with the flow we shall go. But where's the flow saying we should go?
You know Canterlot. What do you think we should do?
Hm. Take your pick. Culture, couture, cuisine!
Oh, my. Well, it sounds like your stomach is saying we should flow towards some lunch? I know just where to go.
Restaurant Row, the absolute best place for fine dining in all of Equestria!
Ooh, so many choices! Where should we go? This one? That one? Those ones?
Any establishments that have this – the three-hoof rating.
Um, whose hooves?
Why, Zesty Gourmand, the Queen of Cuisine. When it comes to food, she is the ultimate authority in Canterlot and thus all Equestria. She judges a restaurant on cuisine, decor, and presentation. Without her approval, a restaurant simply cannot survive.
What's so important about her approval?
Zesty grew up around fine dining, and everypony hangs on her every word when it comes to cuisine.
[gasps] Oh, my! Such presentation. Mm. Oh. [smacks lips] Ah. Yes. Very nice...
Nom nom nom. [gulps, gags] Maybe, I'm not in the mood for... [whispers] whatever this is. Can we try someplace else?
Nom nom. Ugh. Maybe one more stop?
Blech! Nope.
Maybe instead of trusting somepony else's hooves, I should pick the next place?
Ugh! Very well.
The Tasty Treat. It's very... rustic. [whispers] It looks like it hasn't even been rated.
Thank goodness! Hee-hee!
Are we sure they're open?
[sniffs deeply] Mmmm. It smells open.
Oh! Are you here for lunch?
Yes, indeedy!
I'm Saffron Masala, the chef here at The Tasty Treat, the most exotic cuisine in Canterlot. Would you like to hear about the specials?
We're actually in a bit of a hur—
Yes, please!
We have a curried oat cake.
We'll take one!
Uh, and a grass sandwich that has been marinated overnight in a mustard Dijon dressing.
How can you say no to that?
A-And for you?
Oh, me? Oh, I'm fine. Thank you. [aside, singsong, to Pinkie] No rating.
Hiya! What's your name?
Coriander Cumin.
Are you a chef here too?
My daughter cooks. I host.
Then why are you stacking chairs?
Without customers, I have nopony to host for. So I stack!
Father, stop it! Don't close up the restaurant around our guests.
What does it matter?! When they leave, nopony else will be coming in!
Well, your attitude isn't going to bring anyone in! Can't you at least pretend to be positive?!
[slurps] So good!
You are doing enough pretending for the both of us. Nopony here wants to try anything new! I know when to throw in the towel!
Um, Pinkie, perhaps we should excuse ourselves.
[muffled speaking] Oh, Rarity, try this!
[munches] Ooh!
Maybe if you would listen to my ideas for once...
Oh, yes! I did not move halfway across Equestria for my daughter that I never listen to!
[spits] Rarity, I think that friendship problem just kablammed us right between the eyes!
These two? Oh, I don't know, darling. The food is excellent, but I'm not sure there's much you and I can do to help them.
[scoffs] What would you have me do? We can't even get Zesty Gourmand to come to our restaurant. She took one look at how empty it was and said it wasn't even worth rating!
That's it!
Yes! Uh, what's it?
The flow has led us here! This is our mission! [to Saffron and Coriander] We are going to get you a three-hoof rating and save your restaurant! I can get Zesty Gourmand here!
[gasps] And I can pack this place with ponies!
Hmph. And how do you intend to do such a thing?
Just leave it to us!
Father, will you please stop packing things?!
When the lovely pony comes back and says she couldn't convince Zesty Gourmand to come visit us, we will need to pack all this up. I am just getting a head start.
You really don't know Rarity.
[singsong] I've done it!
See?
It took all of my charm and cajoling, but I was able to convince Zesty Gourmand to come and try the food!
What is the catch?
Ah, yes. Well, um, there is a bit of a challenge. The only time she could make herself available is tonight.
Pfft. Oh, yeah, right.
What is it?
Zesty rates a restaurant on cuisine, decor, and presentation, and she has very specific tastes. If she's coming tonight, there is quite a bit of work that needs to get done.
Like what?
Oh, a tweak here, a tuck there, some slight modifications to the menu. [laughs nervously] We just need the place to feel more cosmopolitan.
Pfft.
Father, after Rarity went to all of this trouble for us, can't we at least try?
Why don't I stay behind with Coriander to get the restaurant ready for Zesty's arrival? You and Saffron can try and drum up some business.
One packed restaurant, coming right up!
Coriander, I understand your trepidation. But I promise you, we will get those hooves by making this place feel just like all of the other restaurants on Restaurant Row!
[sighs] I hope my father doesn't drive Rarity crazy.
It'll be fine. Rarity's gonna make sure that The Tasty Treat is the most unique and beautiful restaurant in Canterlot! Not like all of those stuffy places on Restaurant Row.
Here' If you want to succeed You must follow the trends, that's the key
If you want to show That you've got what it takes You must be what they want you to be
Here' Your food is so good The flavor's so fancy and free
You just need to show That unique sense of taste Go on, be yourself, let them see
It's gonna work I know it's gonna work It's gonna work out just fine, trust me It's gonna work I swear it's gonna work It's gonna work out just fine, you'll see!
You need to change If you want to compete But fear not, for I know what to do
I know it feels strange But trust me, when we're done We'll make sure that you're a hit, too
Don't ever change Being different is good Don't let what others do be your cue
Never rearrange 'Cause somepony said you should Just trust your heart, it will know what to do
It's gonna work I know it's gonna work It's gonna work out just fine, trust me It's gonna work I swear it's gonna work It's gonna work out just fine, you'll see!
Be unique
Just be the same
Trust your heart
You'll make your name
We'll help you every step of the way Because we know what you need to do And you should know it too
It's gonna work I know it's gonna work It's gonna work out just fine, trust me It's gonna work I swear it's gonna work It's gonna work out just fine, you'll see!
[gasps] The day is almost over, and we haven't found any ponies! What will we do?
Try harder! Fillies and gentlecolts! Check out the super stupendous and amazing cuisine of The Tasty Treat! Grand re-opening tonight!
"Citrus Blush": How many hooves does it have?
No hooves yet, but hopefully soon!
"Cayenne": Well, when it gets rated, let us know.
Rrrgh! Stupid hooves!
Oh, look at this, hun!
Oh, The Tasty Treat! Do you think that's a restaurant, sugar?
Yes! Yes, it is!
We came to Canterlot from Whinnyapolis to be adventurous. But so far, the food in all these hoity-toity places tastes like somepony cooked up nothin' with a side o' nothin'.
Well, please, come try the Tasty Treat. I think it's going to be exactly what you're looking for.
[sighs] This is going to be exactly what Zesty is looking for!
Rarity, what did you do?
[unenthusiastic] Welcome to The Tasty Treat. You can eat here if you want. Or not. Who cares?
I know. Isn't it perfect? Zesty is sure to love it.
I thought we were trying to make this the most unique and beautiful restaurant in Canterlot! Not make it exactly like every other restaurant!
[short laugh] We want to help our friends by getting them three hooves. That will only happen if this is like every other restaurant.
Father, what is this?!
Not that! Anything but that!
This is what we must cook if we want to succeed here!
This isn't what I wanted! I wanted Canterlot to like us for us!
Rarity, how could you ruin the restaurant?!
Oh, pff. Kch. Ts! We helped save the restaurant. Now, where are the other guests? How many other ponies are coming?
Two.
Just two?! I thought you said you could pack the place with ponies no matter what!
You said you would make the restaurant better...
...so I guess we both didn't know what we were talking about!
[gasps] Zesty Gourmand! Everypony, places!
[unenthusiastic] Welcome to The Tasty Treat. What can I get you this evening?
I hardly think it matters, but by all means, try your best to impress.
Well, we'll both try the special this evening. Maybe with a little kick to it, eh? Yeah, we've been craving some food with actual taste.
Saffron Masala, what are you doing?!
I'm trying to save our reputations! [sips] I've given it at least a little bit of flavor.
No-no-n-n-no, but that's not what Zesty wants!
What kind of food expert doesn't want flavor?! That's insane!
I'm taking this out there!
No! Zesty will hate it! You are going to ruin this for them!
No, I'm trying to fix it after you ruined it!
Noooooo!
I think we are done here.
Zesty! Please wait! Allow me to explain!
Rarity, when it comes to fashion, you are adequate. But take some advice from a friend – keep your opinions out of restaurants. Substandard food, laughable service, and I would think even you could recognize that the decor here is trying desperately while desperately failing. Recommending a disreputable place such as this could do serious damage to your social standing.
Disreputable?! You mean a place with food that actually tastes good?
Anypony can throw ingredients together and create an obvious taste that uncultured ponies like those two can register.
Hey!
But it takes a true culinary artist to create a subtle taste, the barest hint of a sensation. That's what I bring to Canterlot. That's art.
I'm so embarrassed.
I don't know that there are words to adequately express how truly sorry we are.
The worst has happened. No use crying over spilt food now.
Here. This always cheered me up when I was younger.
[gasps] My spicy flat-noodle soup!
Oh, my! This is truly delightful!
Mmm, this is the best thing you've made so far! And I thought the food before was the best!
That's all I've ever wanted to do, father! Make food for the ponies of Canterlot like the food we made together when I was younger!
It has been so long since we cooked together. Heh. Remember how you used to hide the ingredients you did not like?
You know what? Who cares what some stuffy unicorn thinks of the food here? It's exquisite.
That's true.
And you don't need three silly hooves in your window to prove it.
That's double true!
You just need ponies in here to give it a chance! Ponies that will tell everypony else in Canterlot that The Tasty Treat has the best food in the city!
That's true times three!
But without Zesty's approval, nopony will even try our food!
Ohhhh, yes, they will. Pinkie, we are the perfect team for this! We were just doing the wrong jobs! I will go out and bring the crowd! You stay here and make sure this place is every bit as unique and rustic as it was the moment we walked in!
And? What about us?
You two? You are going to cook! Make whatever you want, and make a lot of it! I intend to bring a crowd!
Would the owner of one of the premier boutiques in Canterlot put a stamp of approval on something that wasn't fabulous?
It's almost time! Is everypony ready for the grand re-re-opening?
Before we open, my father and I just wanted to say... Thank you for all of your help. We've both been so stressed about the restaurant succeeding that we forgot what it was we loved about it in the first place.
Cooking is something we used to love to do together. No matter what happens next, thank you for reminding us of that.
Oh, you guys! Group hug!
Now come on! We've got a party to throw!
Welcome to The Tasty Treat! Make yourselves comfortable!
Please, feel free to sample the food!
What's this?! What is everypony doing here?! This place has no hooves! It is not in keeping with the level of cuisine that I have set for Canterlot! Nopony told you this place was acceptable!
"Sweet Biscuit": Uh, Rarity and her friend said it was good? They told us!
They told you? And who are they to tell you anything? Rarity can tell you what hats to wear with which skirts. Her friend can tell you how to maintain a tragic look for a frizzy mane. They can't tell you what food you can eat!
No, we can't, and neither can you! Nopony has the right to tell these ponies what to think! Zesty, you have very... specific...
And very strange!
Yes, and very strange opinions about food, and that's your right. But just because you like your food a certain way, there is no reason to tell these ponies that they need to do the same!
Rarity is right! I for one think the food here is delicious! I own The Smoked Oat on Restaurant Row; I hate the food we make! From now on, it's all smoked, basted, and grilled!
This food is an inspiration! I own The Bake Stop. I'm going to bake my mother's bundt cake the way she made it – full of flavor!
Zesty, are you sure you wouldn't like to try the food? Ignoring a unique and fresh establishment such as this could do serious damage to your social standing.
Hmph!
Thank you so much!
You are both truly amazing.
Nothing can stop the dynamic duo of Pinkie and Rarity!
Whoa! [gasping] Oof!
Well, don't stop there! You read, I pack! That's the deal!
I'm sorry, Rainbow Dash. I just keep thinking about how much fun you're gonna have at the Daring Do convention. I wish Princess Celestia didn't need my help with the friendship summit in Griffonstone.
Don't worry. I'll make sure A. K. Yearling signs your book. I can't believe she's gonna be there! She never goes to conventions!
Which, I guess, will be cool for all those other fanponies. But since you and I know A. K. Yearling personally, [hushed] and we know that she's secretly Daring Do herself, [normal] it's no big deal. This convention will be fun, but it's nothing to get too excited about.
So excited!
You look like a pony who'd be up for an all-inclusive one-of-a-kind adventu-cation, where you can get to live the Daring Do experience!
No thanks. Did that already. Ahhh.
This is the...
...awesomest thing ever!
Now this is something that only a true fan can appreciate.
They even put the tiles in the right order.
Huh. Good catch. Oh, I'm Quibble Pants. Nice to meet you.
Rainbow Dash.
Nice costume.
You, too.
Thanks. The hard part was figuring out the right...
...number of arrow holes.
B-B-Because on page 84 of Sapphire Stone, i-it describes her dodging a, quote, "score of arrows shooting forth from holes in the very walls," unquote, but then on page 107, Daring Do says she, quote, "barely made it past the traps' barrage of arrows," unquote, but clearly, Daring Do is embellishing and the correct number of arrows is...
[sighs] I am so glad I ran into you. Even though I knew the convention would be totally awesome, it's more fun when you're with someone who really knows Daring Do.
I know what you mean. It's so hard to find a pony who really gets it.
Hm. That's weird. We've only done stuff from the first trilogy. After lunch, we should probably start working our way back through the other books.
Whoa, whoa, whoa. There are no other books.
Of course there are. Daring Do and the Trek of the Terrifying Towers, Daring Do and the Many Faces of—
Uh, p-please, please don't. Just don't even mention the titles. I-I'm not saying those books don't exist. I'm saying that I refuse to acknowledge them.
Why?
'Cause they're horrible! I mean, there isn't a single thing after Ring of Destiny that is even remotely in the realm of the possible!
What?! I know for a fact that everything in every one of those books is one hundred percent possible!
Uh, and how could you possibly know that?
Gyuh, uh, I just... do!
Well, that's a compelling argument.
Why would you even come to this convention if you hate Daring Do so much?
I don't hate Daring Do. The first series was smart and cool and an amazing nod to old-time serialized adventure books, that somehow manages to be self-reflective and ironic while at the same time celebrating the art form without a hint of cynicism. Which is why I came here to ask A. K. Yearling muzzle-to-muzzle why she sold out and dumbed down the rest of her books into just a series of impossible action sequences!
Okay, now I know you're crazy. A. K. Yearling is awesome, and every Daring Do book that comes out is better than the last!
Wha... Wow. Okay, yeah, I-I-I'm sorry, but I could never be friends with somepony who's willing to believe impossible stuff is possible as long as Daring Do does it.
That's okay, because I could never be friends with somepony who's so focused on things being possible that he's willing to turn his back on the coolest hero of all time!
Fine!
Fine!
Look, just tell A. K. Yearling that Rainbow Dash is here, and I need her help to convince a know-it-all pony that everything Daring Do's ever done actually happened!
A. K. Rainbow Dash?
A. K.! I gotta talk to you. It's an emergency!
A. K. [hushed] Not here!
A. K. [hushed] Now tell me, what's going on? Is it Caballeron? Did you see him?
What? No. But there is a pony downstairs who thinks everything you've written after the first trilogy is totally unrealistic and terrible. And I need you to help me prove to him that it's all totally possible.
A. K. I've got bigger problems on my hooves than dissatisfied fanponies.
Whoa!
A. K. The Amulet of Culiacan, and Caballeron wants it. But the amulet's only a key. [chuckles] The real treasure is hidden in a lost temple. The Seven-Sided Chest of Chicomoztoc. Caballeron wants to sell it to the highest bidder, of course, which is why I need to find it first.
Yes! Sounds like another awesome Daring Do adventure! But... what are you doing here?
A. K. Since I haven't found the temple yet, it's the safest place for me and the amulet. It's crawling with security, and if I get into trouble...
...I can just blend in with all the Daring Do cosplayers.
How can I help?
Just keep your eyes out for anything suspicious.
Got it!
Does a pony who only likes your first trilogy qualify as suspicious?
Heh, just checking.
Dr. [sighs] I find all this fanfare around my archenemy... disturbing. [to salespony] I mean, where is the booth for Caballeron?
Dr. I do not see the likeness. Come, let us find Daring Do and the Amulet of Culiacan. I don't want to spend any more time in this place than I have to!
Well, if it isn't the pony who know impossible things can happen because she just does!
Ugh! Sorry, Quibble, I've got more important things to do than argue with a pony who thinks awesome means unrealistic.
No, wait! I want to hear more about how you're one hundred percent sure that in Curse of the Jungle Queen, Daring Do could survive a sixty-story drop from the top of a waterfall after sustaining a broken wing in a category-six rapid!
Ugh! Obviously, her wing wasn't broke— Caballeron!
See, now that's a great character. Solid backstory, good motivations...
No-no-no-no! Caballeron is right there!
Of course he is. He's also over there, over there... Ooh, ooh, over there, and and over there. Where are you going?
And we're out here because...?
Daring Do told me that Caballeron came to this convention to steal the Amulet of Culiacan, and I just saw him and his henchponies come this way!
Okay. I'm gonna head back inside. There's just a little too much crazy out here for the both of us.
Dr. I do not know what Daring Do is playing at, but if she told you two fanponies of my plan to steal the amulet, you must work for her.
Caballeron! Hah! What do you have to say now, Quibble?
This was your plan to prove the Daring Do books are realistic? You bought a Daring Do Experience Adventu-cation, really?
What?! No! Look around us! Henchponies, Caballeron, the jungle it took forever to get to? This is the real deal!
Right. We're actually being held captive by Caballeron. Please! This guy's accent is all over the place! No offense.
Dr. I...
So what's the setup here? You've... kidnapped us, and taken us to the middle of nowhere because...?
Dr. The Temple of Chicomoztoc is somewhere in this jungle. When I find it, the Seven-Sided Chest is as good as mine! I just need the Amulet of Culiacan to unlock it.
Uh-huh, and Daring Do has the amulet so you came up with this over-complicated plot to lure her into the jungle and exchange it for us.
Dr. I wouldn't call it over-complicated, but... yes.
Okay, we're done here. Great work. Seriously, very believable.
[grunts] Listen, pal, you can keep her money, but I'm not—
Dr. Going anywhere! You may not approve of my plan, but I'm the mastermind here!
[aside] Debatable...
Dr. And I say you will remain here until Daring Do comes to rescue you. And if she wants you back in one piece, she will give me the amulet! Tie them up!
The Griffon's Lock!
Dr. You know of it? Further proof that you are an agent of Daring Do!
Or an avid reader.
Listen, if I pretend to believe this nonsense is real, will you call off the henchpony repertory theater over there?
They're not gonna listen to me. They abducted us both.
"Pickpocket": What was that?!
[unconvincingly] Daring Do. Thank goodness. We're over here.
"Pickpocket": Fan out! We can't let Daring Do rescue these two!
[laughing] All four?! I mean, shouldn't at least one of them stay behind to guard us? Oh, oh, wait, the... No, because then it wouldn't be a terrible Daring Do adventure.
It doesn't matter. We'll never solve the Griffon's Lock before they get back.
Okay, that was pretty good. Quick, we've gotta get out of here and warn Daring Do!
No way. Just point me to the hotel and you can play fanpony and hunt treasure out here all day long.
[sighs] Fine. Let's just say this is a Daring Do Adventucation. The only way to get back to the convention is to go through it. So just follow me, and I'll lead you out. Deal?
I... [groans] Fine.
[under her breath] Maybe if I just leave you in the jungle, it'll convince you.
...which would make Daring Do left-hoofed, which we know is false, and that is everything that's wrong with Daring Do and the Trek to the Terrifying Tower. Now, the problems with the next book are even— Oh, right. What Daring Do adventure would be complete without the precarious rope bridge?
Look, I'm all for making things feel as real as possible, but are these Adventu-cation ponies sure this thing is safe?
Is it too "realistic" for you? Wouldn't want that on a Daring Do adventure, would we?
If this were really a real Daring Do adventure, I'm sure I'd step on the wrong plank at exactly the wrong—
Whoa!
[sighs] Good thing this is all just a pretend adventure. Least we know all of this struggling won't make the bridge fall apart.
You need to get your money back.
Hah! How's that for not possible?
That was... awesome! I-I-I thought we... and then you, and the flying...! Wow, and I was like, "Where are you going?!" A-a-and then you swerved, and I was, I was, I was on the water, and then [devolves into hyperventilating gibberish] Wow!
Yeah. If you read that in a book, you might even think it was unrealistic.
Okay, I'll give you that one. I mean we could have been done for. [beat] We could have been done for! W-What kind of Adventu-cation is this?! I mean, that's just, that's just bad business! What, what are these ponies thinking?!
Dr. Make sure they are secure this time! We can't have them escaping again.
[straining] You'll never get away with this!
Dr. Won't I? You've led me to the temple, and Daring Do is too noble to let harm befall her companions, so the amulet is as good as mine. What? No witty remarks this time about how silly my plan is?
This isn't the official Daring Do Experience Adventu-cation, is it.
Finally!
It's some cheap knockoff run by a bunch of incompetent ponies that have no idea how to execute this adventure with any level of safety!
Ugh!
What was that with the bridge?! We were in serious danger! I-I'm reporting you all to... well, I don't know who I'm reporting you to, but it's gonna be somepony important! Oh, and this cut-rate excuse for an "Experience" hasn't proved anything except that I'm right! It has all the hallmarks of a lame Daring Do adventure!
Uh... Quibble?
No, I'm talking! Generic jungle location – check. Overly complicated villain plot – check. Random coincidences that conveniently get us to the next big set piece – check!
Dr. Watch where you are stepping, you fool!
Listen, buddy, I don't take orders from some second-rate performer who learned acting from the Supervillain School of Bad Accents! The only thing this mess is missing is some giant Ahuizotl wannabe monster, and I have a feeling that would be a bit too much for you bargain-basement adventurers to pull off!
Huh?
Um... you're real. This is real. This is real!
I told you to warn me of anything suspicious, not run off on an adventure without me!
Wha... Whoa, whoa, y-you're real! You-you-you're friends with her?
Uh, we'll have to do introductions later. Right now we have to—
G-Get out of here, yes! Thank you!
Actually, no.
What?!
We can't leave without the treasure. And we should probably get to it before our friend gets any higher.
Whoa!
Seven doors, seven locks. One of them leads to the treasure. I'd rather not think about what the others lead to.
Yeah, yeah, the classic "Pony and the Tiger" bit. All you have to do is—
Um, maybe you should let Daring Do figure it out?
Oh, 'scuse me.
[coughs] Not that one.
Ehhhhh...
Is he always like this?
Yeah. But... he's usually right.
[sighs] Which lock do you think it is?
Ugh, finally. Look, each door has another door that matches. These two both have Earth ponies fighting serpents. These two have Pegasi fighting griffons. These two have unicorns fighting bears. But this one...
...has an Alicorn on it! It's the only one without a match! How did I miss that?
I've been asking myself that ever since book four!
The Seven-Sided Chest of Chicomoztoc!
Uh, guys...?
Uh... The way out is totally covered! How are we gonna get out of here?!
There!
Seriously, do you ever not escape out of the top of a temple?!
We'll have to carry Mr. Adventure Critic out with us!
We won't be fast enough! We'll never make it!
Guys! I think Rainbow Dash and I have this covered.
Go around! You can't go over him!
Go over him?! Are you crazy?!
If Quibble says go over him, we go over him!
You two are insane!
You said go over him!
I said go around him!
[hushed] And I said be quiet!
Dr. This way! I heard them!
[hushed] Okay, I got it. Let's create a fake treasure out of mud and rocks, give that to Caballeron, and then we—
[hushed] Not every Daring Do plan has to be super-complicated.
Dr. Rrrgh! I swear I heard them!
Dr. I'll get you, Daring Dooooo!
Meh. Not particularly original or inspired, but it worked.
Who were you again?
He's a fan.
[unconvinced] Uh-huh. [normal] There's some stairs on the other side of the temple that lead out of the ravine. I suggest you two take them and head west.
What about you?
I've gotta get this to a museum. Thanks for your help. I couldn't have done it without you. Both of you.
So...?
So... maybe the later books are slightly more realistic than I gave them credit for. Still don't like them.
What?! How can you—?!
Wait, hold on. Before we get in another fight, I-I think I finally figured it out! I love the Daring Do that solves puzzles and uses her brain to get out of tough situations, and she did way more of that in the original trilogy! You love the Daring Do that is brave and awesome and comes out on top no matter what the odds!
Okay...?
And that's okay! We might never agree on what makes Daring Do cool, but you... are definitely cool. I-I mean, the way you saved me on the bridge? Wow! And escaping from the temple... you, Rainbow Dash, are awesome.
Well... I-I'm not the one who can locate a treasure in half the time Daring Do can! You may have terrible taste in books, but you're pretty awesome yourself. In a brainy, egghead, puzzle-solving kind of way. Heh.
I guess we don't have to agree on everything to get along. Friends?
Definitely friends.
Uh, do you think A. K. Yearling would consider letting me write the next book? I... I think I can make things way clearer. I mean, for instance, in the second adventure...
...there's a side character. I don't want to kind of name it right now, because it's sort of this thing that I've already written a lot of fan fiction on. I don't want you to... Not that I'm saying that you would steal it! But I am saying this would totally go along my whole thing about puzzle-solving, except what if each puzzle that was solved, uh, unlocked a new karate move? Think of it that way, right? And I mean I'm kind of a "Yearlite" myself, so I'm sure she'd be open to—
Uh... Quibble?
Sorry!
Good morning, Miss Cheerilee!
Good morning, everypony! I hope you brought your thinking caps, because today we're going to learn about physics!
Physics?
Mm-hmm! Specifically, the use of force in energy conversions! In this case, using mechanical work to convert potential energy into kinetic energy!
The what now?
Um, Miss Cheerilee? That sounds a bit over our heads.
Yeah. Why would we even need to know that stuff?
Oh, it's very important. In fact, you'll most likely end up using it tomorrow.
Tomorrow? What for?
Why, for participating in the... Applewood Derby!
Oh, phew! For a second, I thought we were gonna have to, you know, learn stuff.
We get to race in the Applewood Derby tomorrow? That's so cool!
My family's talked about it for years, and now I'm finally old enough to race!
Now hold on to your horseshoes, everypony. You've got a lot of work to do before you're ready to race.
Yeah, but... not schoolwork, right?
There'll be a block of applewood just like this one waiting for you at Sweet Apple Acres tomorrow, and you've got one day to turn it into a race-ready cart.
Oh, yeah... That is a lot of work.
Mm-hmm. Luckily, you'll each get to pick an older pony to help you! But choose wisely, because they'll also have to ride in the cart with you during the race.
Hmmm... I think I know just the pony to ask.
Me too!
Me three!
Just remember, everypony. Your cart has to be able to finish the race if you want to win one of the awards. Fastest – for winning the race, naturally. Most traditional – for the best working replica of an original Applewood cart. And most creative – for the cart with the best overall design.
[dreamily] Hoo-wee! Those ribbons are the bees' knees.
[dreamily] Uh-huh...
All right then, class! You've got a lot to learn if you want to build a race cart.
Aww... I knew there was gonna be a catch!
Wow! Have you seen what the carts used to look like in the olden days?
Yeah, I know all about them. When Ponyville started the Derby, they decided to use the wood from our apple trees for the carts. The race has been a part of Sweet Apple Acres ever since.
I just think these old carts look so cool! But I guess you and Applejack will probably win the award for the most traditional, huh?
The Apples usually do, but honestly, I'd rather build the fastest cart there is and win the race!
But... I'm pretty sure Scoot and Rainbow Dash'll take that award.
You know, I race around so much on my scooter, being the fastest isn't such a big deal. Maybe I'll try to make the wildest looking cart I can think of!
Really?
Sure! If I win most creative, you can totally win the award for fastest!
And I can win the award for most traditional!
Sounds like we're all gonna try somethin' different. I can't wait to tell Applejack!
Let's get to it!
Go, Crusaders!
Are you kidding?! Of course I'll help with the Applewood Derby! I want you to have as much fun as I did when I was a filly!
Wait, Cloudsdale has a derby too?
Sure! Practically every town in Equestria has one! [sighs] I still remember racing my cloud cart...
This is so awesome! Woo-hoooooo!
And lemme guess. You won fastest cart.
Heh, obviously!
So what do you say? Will you help me make my race cart?
Help you? I'm all over it! I've got tons of ideas.
Don't worry, I've got a lot of— Whoa. Ideas of my own. Um...
What are you looking for?
The blueprint for my derby cart, of course! I'll have to change it a little, 'cause this race is on roads, not on clouds. But trust me, your cart is gonna be amazing!
Um, okay, Rainbow Dash, thanks! How awesome is this? With Dash on my team, how could anything go wrong?
Well, I'm mighty flattered you wanna work with your big sis on your cart. I mean, the Applewood Derby did—
—start on our farm. I know.
Well, I couldn't be more proud to help my little sister take the prize for most traditional.
Actually, I was kinda thinking of somethin' else. Like... fastest?
[scoffs] Fastest? Apple Bloom, things aren't like they were in the old days. The fastest cart now has gotta be slick and modern and—
Exactly!
Not Apple at all. The Apples win most traditional. We have since the Derby started! Why would anypony want to win anythin' else? Now why don't you head off and get some chamomile vines, some hickory sticks, and some apple barrels, and I'll show you what an Apple family cart should look like!
I guess I do have a family tradition to uphold...
[gasps] The Applewood Derby?! [excited giggling] Of course I'll help!
Wow. Uh, Rarity, I didn't know you'd be this excited.
Me? Oh, why, I'm just itching to right an old wrong from long, long ago!
[narrating] I designed my own cart when I was just a filly, and I was positive I was going to win the prize for most creative, hooves down! But I came in second. Second!
You? Second in most creative? To whom?!
[narrating] But I learned a valuable lesson.
I learned to know my audience, and the race cart audience wants big! They want bold!
Chop chop! Everypony out!
We've got work to do!
...but I will fashion the biggest and boldest Derby cart to ever win the prize for most creative!
Actually, I was sorta thinking of something more... traditional?
Oh! [tittering] Please, darling, leave tradition to the Apples. We're doing big, we're doing bold! [humming to self] Soon the prize for most creative will finally be in my hooves!
You mean my hooves.
Yes, that's what I said – my hooves. Darling, I hope you're ready to get an early start tomorrow!
Uh... how early?
[yawns] [groans] Rarity, the sun's not even up yet.
Oh, apples, quit complainin'! In my day, we were up even earlier!
Hey, I'd get up in the middle of the night if it means my cart crosses that finish line first and wins fastest!
And my cart wins most creative!
And my cart wins most traditional! Hoo-wee, it's gonna be a good day!
You mean our carts, right?
Yes, that's what we said, darling.
Yup.
Our carts.
Their carts? It almost sounds like they're planning on building them without us.
I'm sure they meant "our" carts. Like, the team cart, right?
Of course! I mean, they're all our older sisters. Practically. Plus, they've all done this before. I'm sure they know best. Let's just buckle down and get to work!
Scootaloo, where have you been? I've only got 'til noon to make the fastest cart ever!
Uh, about that. I was really thinking of going for the most creative prize. I mean, I know all about speed already, so...
Exactly! It's all about speed! You've gotta get across the finish line to win a prize, so we might as well get there first, right? Hey, I left a bunch of paint cans by the road. Bring them up here, would ya? Nothing as fun as painting racing stripes on the winning cart!
[sighs] Right... Fun...
Spendin' time buildin' a cart with my big sister? Why, this is just tee-riffic! Um... how can I help?
You can feast your eyes on... this! I-I mean, it ain't quite finished yet.
Oh, good.
But don't it have the makin's of the best cart you ever did see? Uh... is somethin' wrong, Apple Bloom?
Actually, I was kinda thinkin' of somethin' a little more modern. And less rickety. With maybe a chance of winning?
I'm an Apple, but... what if I just take off this fringe?
No, not the fringe!
Ugh! Why, shoot! Now I've gotta start all over from scratch, and it's almost race time!
Oh. So, maybe we can redesign it then? Just a little.
No time! And who'd want to redesign somethin' that's already perfect?
Right... Perfect...
Okay, so I sketched out some of my ideas.
How about a nice yellow fringe on top?
[muffled] Oh-ho-ho-ho, darling, [normal] the fringe is not exactly big! And that yellow is the least bold color I can imagine!
Well, it doesn't have to be yellow. But I really do love the old-timey style. Like this.
Sweetie Belle, precious face, "old-timey" is just another word for passé. Remember, big and bold! I do have a reputation to uphold! It was one thing to lose as a filly, but can you imagine if I didn't win the most creative now? Ponies might stop buying my couture!
But we're supposed to be doing this together!
[sighs] Right... Wonderful...
[tired] Hey, Crusader... How's it goin'?
[sighs] Rarity's definitely made the biggest, boldest cart anypony's ever seen.
Wow. Well, Applejack's built somethin' so traditional, it's practically an antique.
[sighs] No matter what I say, there's no talking Rainbow Dash out of making the fastest cart in Equestria.
Doesn't look like any of us ended up with what we wanted.
But... I'm sure our older sisters know what they're doin'. Right?
Right...
Right.
And even if our carts aren't exactly what we had in mind, it'll still be fun to drive them to the finish line.
Sure! The race is the best part!
Yeah! CMCs behind the wheels!
Derby racers to the starting line! Derby racers to the starting line!
The race is about to start, Scootaloo! You better shake a leg if you wanna ride in the winning cart!
You, too, Sweetie Belle. There's only one seat left aboard this creative masterpiece, and it's just for you. Woo-hoo!
Whoa, ponies! Wait for me! This traditional cart handles at the exact perfect pace – slow! And I got the passenger seat all warmed up for ya, Apple Bloom!
Passenger seat?!
[grunts] They're the only older ponies driving!
First they built the carts, now they're gonna drive them?!
I know they were all excited to help, but I don't think they're really helping anymore.
We better hurry if we wanna be a part of this race at all!
Um, aren't you all missing somepony?
They'll be along.
And, uh, [hushed] usually the younger ponies drive the carts.
[chuckles] Darling, do these look like usual carts to you?
[blows fanfare] Racers! On your marks, get set, go!
[scream turns into a grunt] Can't we go any faster?!
Faster? Don't be silly. This is perfect!
Go, go, go!
Check me out, racin' the Derby Check out my old-fashioned cart
Check me out, racing the Derby In my original work of art
Check me out, faster than ever There's nopony can catch me now
Let me out, I'd do it over If I only knew how!
Giddyup, derby racers Giddyup, derby racers Giddyup, derby racers Go, go, go!
My cart's the most original Designed with imagination
My cart's the most traditional Just plain, no complications
Look at me, I am the ace Might as well give up the chase
Wish we could stop this race Start again and do it our way
Having any fun yet?
Nope! Maybe if we could go a little faster!
Giddyup, derby racers Giddyup, derby racers Giddyup, derby racers Go, go, go!
Gotta get some attention If I want that ribbon
Gotta push the limit further Blow away the competition
Gotta coast on through Just relax, we're gonna cruise it
Guess I don't really care Since we're clearly gonna lose it
See, everypony's watching Presentation is a glory
Just passed you, even faster Speed is king, end of story
Bigger, bolder down the track
Love the view from the back of the pack
Won't stop, we're on the attack
Too late to take it all back!
Giddyup, derby racers Giddyup, derby racers Giddyup, derby racers Go, go—
Look out!
Oh! My beautiful swan cart is an ugly duckling!
And my old-time cart is a rootin' tootin' wreck!
[straining] It still counts as a win if I push my cart across, right?
They're not your carts!
Applejack, Rainbow Dash, Huh?
We were supposed to design them!
And we were supposed to drive them!
The Derby was supposed to be for us, not the three of you! Now you've ruined it for everypony!
Mmmh...
Yes, well, I suppose we might have gotten a teensy bit carried away...
But I thought you all wanted our help.
We did! We wanted your help to build our carts. But we all ended up with carts that are what each of you wanted!
Mm-hmm.
But why didn't you say anything?
You've all done the race before. I just figured you knew best!
Plus it's hard to speak up to older ponies.
Oh, I certainly understand that. But you mustn't think older ponies automatically know best.
And we probably could have done a better job of listening to you.
Oof. I guess we owe all three of you an apology.
Maybe not just us.
[nervous laugh] Um, how do you feel about a do-over?
I think that's a wonderful idea! But maybe the older ponies should sit this one out.
Thanks for helping us fix up our carts. Pretty creative, right?
I know it's not traditional, but it sure looks fast, don't it?
You know, darling, I can't believe I'm saying this, but that yellow fringe is rather bold after all.
Thanks, everypony. We couldn't have done it without you.
Yup, I sure am glad Miss Cheerilee agreed to run the race over again.
Well, it isn't every year I get to say this twice, but... Derby racers to the starting line! Derby racers to the starting line! Racers! On your marks, get set... go!
And it's probably best keeping all the grown-ups on the sidelines. But... what are we supposed to do now?
I think I have an idea.
[sipping through straw] Ahhh! Much better! Honestly, I'm not sure why we wanted to race those carts in the first place.
Seriously! [sighs] This is the most relaxed I've been all day.
I'm so sorry I lost track of time at our picnic. I didn't mean for us to get caught out here after dark. But there's really nothing to be afraid of. The forest at night is the same as the forest during the day.
Only... darker.
Still, maybe we should hurry back to the cottage.
Nothing to worry about. No reason to...
Ruuuun!
[hyperventilating] That wasn't funny! You really scared me! I hope you're happy.
Nope. You're too easy. You're scared of everything.
That's not true.
Boo.
I mean, how could you not appreciate that?
Because I don't think being scared is very fun!
I do! Your heart gets all racy, your hooves get all tingly, your mouth gets all dry-ie! Actually, I don't like that part. But the rest is great!
See? Everypony likes a good prank! They're just jokes!
Now, Rainbow Dash, I don't think Fluttershy would have called us all here to talk about this if she thought it was funny. Everypony has things they like and things they don't.
And scarin' Fluttershy is just lazy.
[scoffs] Lazy?!
A prank isn't very good if you're the only pony laughing.
But what if it's really, really, really, really, really funny?
And I can do funny.
I know you can. I guess the trick is making sure that your idea of funny matches the pony you're pranking.
That way—
Good one, Rainbow! Ha-ha! You have to admit! That was funny!
Not really.
Yeah. A whoopee cushion is like a joke shortcut.
What?!
Honestly, Rainbow Dash, if you are not willing to put forth the effort required to pull a prank that everypony can enjoy, you may as well not pull one at all.
Fine! If you ponies want effort, then that's just what you'll get.
I'm not sure she understood what we meant.
I know you're excited about the Filly Guide Cookie Drive, but I still have to do a few finishing touches on your uniform.
[lips smacking] Hmm. Not bad.
Huh. [reading] "You asked for it."
What does it mean?
Hmm. I assume this is Dash's idea of a prank, which can only mean she's rigged some kind of booby trap to your Filly Guide uniform up there.
So how do we get it down?
We don't. If Dash thinks I'm going to fall for whatever she's got in mind, she's got another thing coming. There's more uniforms where that one came from!
Hmm. The sewing machine cake is actually better than the cake cake.
Rainbow Dash!
[laughs] Gotcha! Ha-ha! How's that for effort?
What's all this, Applejack? I thought you were gonna help me get ready for the Filly Guide Cookie Drive.
Uh, yeah, sorry about that. But Rainbow Dash has been on a prankin' tear, and you can never be too careful.
Do you really think Dash is gonna try and prank you in your sleep?
Not if I have anythin' to say about it.
See ya in the mornin', sugarcube.
Huh?!
Whoa!
Ha! Still think I'm lazy? Gotcha! [laughing] Pigpen...
[grunts] Ugh! Rainbow Dash!
[laughs] Gotcha!
Gotcha!
Gotcha!
Gotcha!
Pinkie! We need your help.
Okay! For what?
Are you honestly going to stand there and tell us you know nothing about all the pranking Rainbow Dash has been doing?
Oh, no! She's been pranking up a storm!
Did she get you, too?
[laughs] Oh, yeah! She and Gummy both!
Boo!
They got me good.
Well, she needs to stop.
Stop? But pranks are so much fun!
Not for everypony. And it doesn't seem like Dash is taking the time to find out who enjoys them and who doesn't.
Uh, since you and Dash share such an, uh, affinity for pranking, we thought you might be able to get her to, um, uh... quit it!
Hey, Rainbow Dash! I have something very important to tell you!
Pinkie, hey! I actually have something totally important to tell you!
You do? Ooh! You go first!
Okay, you know how I've been pranking everypony?
Yeah! [giggles] It's been pretty funny! I-I-I mean, actually, that's what I have to talk to you about.
Here. Have a cookie.
So, I got to thinking – why waste my time pranking everypony one at a time when I could prank everypony at once?
Mmm, wow! Everypony at once?! That sounds amazing!
Gah, wait! I mean, it's not.
You don't even know what it is yet! Pinkie, this is gonna be the best prank ever! I special ordered these joke cookies so the colors would match my mane.
And?
And I'm gonna switch them with the Filly Guide cookies. When Scootaloo and her friends sell them, everypony in town's gonna get a rainbow mouth courtesy of Rainbow Dash! Ha-ha! It's gonna be so awesome!
Uh, I don't know. I mean, it doesn't really seem all that funny.
[gasps] What?!
Maybe this is a good time to stop pranking for a while. The other ponies in town really—
Stop?! No way! This prank is happening, Pinkie! And it's gonna be hilarious!
Pinkie, what's the deal? I told you I needed your help switching out all the Filly Guide cookies for the joke cookies. But when you didn't show, I had to do it all by myself! Uh, Pinkie?
[chuckles] Wow. Your face is still pretty rainbowed.
Yeah, I haven't really [coughs] been feeling well. And these joke cookies are the only thing that makes me feel better. You don't have any more, do you?!
Uh, no. I just told you, I used them all for the prank.
Oh.
Pretty soon, the CMCs will start selling them to everypony in town. Ponies will open their boxes and start eating, then all of their teeth will turn rainbow-colored, and they'll know it was me! It's gonna be so awesome! C'mon, you don't wanna miss it!
Actually... [coughs] I don't think I can even... stand... up... [raspy] Unless you've got more cookies!
Aah! On second thought, maybe you better stay here and rest.
[sighs] Yeah. You're right. Sorry to miss out. I'm sure it's gonna be hilarious.
All right, who's ready to sell some cookies?
Me!
Look here, Rainbow Dash. I know you promised Scootaloo you'd help out, but I don't want none of your pranks ruinin' these fillies' night.
Look, I'll be with you the whole night so you can totally keep an eye on me.
Come on, Applejack! Let's get started!
Yeah! We've got a lot of ground to cover!
We wanna hit every house in Ponyville!
I think you three should be real proud. Y'all did a mighty impressive job for your first go-'round.
You took the words right out of my mouth, Applejack. Isn't that right, Rainbow Dash?
[hushed] Any minute now.
Uh... "any minute now" what?
Huh? Oh, uh, nothing! Have you guys noticed how quiet it's gotten? I mean, it's still early, right?
Of course it's quiet. Ponies can't talk while they're eating those fabulous cookies, heh.
You think?
Of course. They're probably all in a cookie coma right now.
Huh... Maybe you're right. I'll go check.
What is going on...? Okay. Definite cookie-eating happening. But... where is everypony? They must have seen their rainbow mouths by now... They should all be running out into the streets! Unless everypony went to bed early...
Pinkie?
The whole town got the cookies, and now everypony is shut up in their houses! You don't think there's something wrong with the joke cookies, do you?
Mrs. Cake! Phew! Have you seen Pinkie? I was thinking I might have something to do with her not feeling great.
Uh... Mrs... Cake...?
Mrs. [droning] Cookies...! Cookies!
[whimper] Uh, I can see you're busy! I'll come back!
Uhh!
[droning] Cookies...!
Mrs. [droning] More... cookies...!
Mrs. [droning] Cookies...!
Mrs. [droning] Cookies... cooooooooooooookiiiiiiiiiiieeeeeees...
Mrs. [droning] Moooooore cooooookies...
[droning] More cookies...
[pant] Twilight! [pant] You gotta come with me to Sugarcube Corner! Something's going on with the Cakes! Well, not something exactly. I mean, it may have something to do with these joke cookies...
[droning] Cooooooookies...
Oh, no!
[droning] Coooooookies...
[whimpers] Fluttershy—
[droning] Cooooooookies...
[groans] [droning] Cooooooookiiiiiiieeeeeeees...
[droning] Cookies...
You sure you don't mind us all comin' over?
Oh, of course not. I think the girls have earned a little celebration for all of their hard work. And I have plenty of sewing machine cake left over. Unless anypony wants a cookie...?
Don't touch those!
Oh! There is certainly no call for that! There's plenty for everypony.
Come on! We gotta get outta here!
What in tarnation are you goin' on about?
There's no time! You have to follow me!
Oh, Rainbow Dash, if you want all of those cookies, you will have to buy them, just like everypony else.
I don't want the cookies—!
But they do!
Wh-wh-what... What's happening?
I'll explain later. Come on!
We need to find somewhere to hide!
Cookie! Cookie!
This way!
[spits, pants] Did we lose them?
[pants] Why are we running from the ponies of Ponyville?
What happened to all of our friends?
[sighs] I think it's something in the cookies.
Ugh! That's ridiculous! Filly Guide cookies haven't changed for years! It's not like there's a new ingredient that's turnin' the whole town into cookie-cravin' zombies.
Uh, unless there... is...
What are you saying?
What did you do?
[droning] Coooooookiiiiiiiieeeee... coooooookiiiiiiieeee....
Cover the windows!
Coooook...
[pants] Okay! So I may have switched all the Filly Guide cookies for joke cookies that were supposed to make ponies' mouths rainbow but somehow turned everypony into mindless cookie-eating zombies instead! I figure we just hide out here until the effects wear off, and as long as nopony else eats the cookies, we'll be fine.
That's lovely, darling, except for one thing... [droning] We've already eaten theeeeeeeeeemmmmm...
[droning] Looks like your prank up and backfiiiirrrrreeeeed...
[droning] Cooooooookiiiieeeees...
No, no! Stay away! They're making you sick! You don't want these!
[droning] But we dooooooo... We want cookiiiiiiiieeeeeeees...!
Nngh! Please! Stop! I never meant for this to happen! It was just a harmless prank! It was supposed to be funny! But this isn't funny at all!
[normal] Exactly!
What? Wait... What's happening?
Just delighting in pranking the prankster.
[chuckles] Yeah. How does it feel to get some of your own medicine?
So... you're... not sick? None of you are?
Of course not, silly!
Gotcha!
This... was all... a prank?!
Yep! And you can thank Pinkie Pie. After you told her about your plan to prank the whole town, she got everypony together and came up with a way to turn the tables on you.
Aw, shucks, it was nothing! Just a little something I threw together.
Uh...
Wow! You should see your face!
[laughs] Talk about funny!
[scoffs] Well, I don't think it's very funny! And I'm the one that got pranked! I was really scared! I thought I made everypony sick! You can't just go around—
—pranking whoever you feel like?
Without thinking about how it might make them feel?
Or if they'd even enjoy it?
Or think it's funny?
Yeah! [beat] Ohhh. I see what you did there.
Pranks can be a lot of fun when everypony has a good time. I thought you just needed to see what it's like when they don't.
I guess I did. I'm sorry, everypony. I haven't really been thinking about how other ponies feel.
Well, I hope you learned your lesson.
Totally! You ponies pulled off an amazing prank! I'll have to work extra hard to top it!
Gotcha.
I hope Shining Armor and Princess Cadance don't think it's too soon for me to come back to the Crystal Empire for a visit. But I just know Flurry Heart's grown so much already. I wonder if I'll even recognize her.
She's the only baby they have, Twilight. I think it'll be pretty easy to figure out who she is.
Sorry. I know you want to visit your niece as much as possible, and I'm excited to see Sunburst again. I just don't wanna fall behind on my friendship lessons back home.
Starlight, your work in Ponyville isn't going anywhere. Besides, I think we all know you can learn about friendship anywhere. Right, Spike?
[deep voice] "Spike?" Who's "Spike"?
Pfft. Uh, you're Spike, Spike. And why are you dressed like that?
[groans] [normal voice] Guys, you're blowing my cover! How'd you even know it was me?
Because you're you... in a coat, hat and glasses. Also, we're the only ones here.
Right.
Spike, why do you need a disguise?
Last time we came to the Crystal Empire, there was a lot goin' on with the new baby and the Crystalling, but I still got mobbed in the street.
I wouldn't say mobbed.
And this is just a family visit. I wouldn't want the presence of Spike the Brave and Glorious to turn it into some kind of circus.
We get it. The Crystal Ponies adore you.
He did save the Empire. Twice. But still, I don't think your presence will turn our visit into a circus.
Not if I find the right disguise, it won't.
Uh, disguise or not, Spike, I don't think you need to worry about being mobbed. Nopony's here.
It's like a ghost town.
I've got a bad feeling about this.
Yeah, this is weird.
I guess I don't need the disguise after all.
It's Spike the Brave and Glorious!
He's come to save us yet again!
Spike! Spike! Spike! Spike!
Save you from what?
Yeah, what's going on?
Why was everypony hiding?
"Amber Laurel": Oh, it sure looks like Princess Twilight and her pupil.
"Scarlet Heart": But how can we be sure?
"Golden Väs": We can't! Either one of them could be the... you know!
"Amber Laurel": [gasps] What if this... [gasps] isn't... [gasps] the real Spike?!
"Scarlet Heart": Everypony, run!
Okay. Something strange is definitely going on.
[groans] Ya think?
Who goes there?
Um, you don't recognize the Princess of Friendship?
Of course we recognize her.
But that doesn't mean it's really her.
It's okay, guys. They're with me. And any friend of Spike the Brave and Glorious is a friend of the Crystal Empire, am I right?
Huh. It does look like him.
Well, it would, wouldn't it? I'm sorry, but we'll need to see some proof of identification.
We'll take care of things from here.
Oh, Cadance, thank goodness! What's going on?
We can explain, Twily... if it really is you.
Sunshine, sunshine...
...ladybugs awake! Clap your hooves and do a little shake! Mmm!
It's okay, everypony. It's her.
Of course it's her! What's all this about?
A changeling's been spotted nearby.
A changeling?!
That's not good.
No, it's not. After Queen Chrysalis took my place at our wedding and invaded Canterlot with her army of minions, we're not taking any chances.
Changelings feed off of love. And ever since Flurry Heart's Crystalling, the Empire is filled with more love than anywhere in Equestria. It's possible they've come for the baby.
That's why we posted the extra guards, and why we're—
Checking everypony's identity.
I'm sorry for all of this. Flurry Heart's really been looking forward to seeing you.
Oh, she's gotten so big! Starlight and I will do whatever we can to help protect her.
To be honest, having you here is already a big relief.
Hmm. The royal guards were wondering if Spike the Brave and Glorious would like to join in the search for the changeling.
Really?
Uh, I don't know if that's such a good idea, Spike. It sounds dangerous.
Come on, Twilight, this is Spike the Brave and Glorious you're talking to. Have you ever known me to run from danger?
Um...
He'll be safe with our guards.
Or will your guards be safe with me?
Spike the Brave and Glorious, you've faced the evil changelings before. What can you tell us?
Oh, uh, well, they are changelings, so they can... change.
[to other guards] You hear that? These monsters can look like any of us, so be on guard, guards! Even more than normal.
And they could be anywhere.
So we should cover as much ground as possible. You, search that way!
And you, search that way!
Help! Help! Help! Help! Help! Help! Help! Oh! Uhh!
Phew! [kisses] Okay. Maybe it's time Spike the Brave and Glorious went back to, uh, protect those guards. Gah! [sighs] Just my reflection. Huh? Ha! Ha-ha! Hmm. Just my imagination, I guess.
No, wait! Come back!
[screaming] This is unexpected.
The ice is pretty slippery. I wouldn't want you to get hurt because of me.
You... saved me?
It's okay. I know you don't wanna be friends.
Wait! I don't understand. Changelings are supposed to be evil... right?
Evil? Oh, not me. All I've ever wanted is a friend.
[narrating] From the moment I first split my egg in the nursery hive...
[narrating] I was part of the attack on Canterlot during the royal wedding, but I'd never seen true friendship like that! And I couldn't just steal it and feed on its love. I wanted to share it!
After that, I knew I couldn't live with my kind anymore. I set off looking for love to share, but...
But... what?
I'm starving! And there's so much love in the Crystal Empire right now. It's what drew me here! But it's drivin' me crazy!
That would be from the royal Crystalling. It's pretty much a giant outpouring of light and love for a new baby.
[hisses] Oh, sorry! I'm just so hungry! If I had a friend, maybe the love we shared could sustain me, but I don't think the Crystal Ponies want to be friends.
What if I told you there was somepony they respect and admire so much, he could convince them to give it a try?
If only that were true.
It is! I mean, I am! It's me, Spike! Spike the Brave and Glorious? I'm sure you've heard of me.
Nope. But I was raised by an evil queen. I'm Thorax. I can't believe you want to help me.
Why? Hasn't anypony ever just been nice to you?
[hisses] Uh! S-Sorry! Kindness like that kind of brings it out. Do you still wanna be my friend?
Of course! And I am one hundred percent sure I can get the whole Crystal Empire to be your friend too.
But... maybe I should just, uh, talk to them first.
What do you mean? Did you see the changeling?
Did you defeat the evil creature?
Defeating a changeling would be brave, but do you know what would be glorious?
Defeating two changelings?
Defeating all the changelings?
Not having to fight the changeling at all! Because I made friends with him.
Oh, wow! For a second I thought you were serious!
[laughing] Could you imagine? Friends with a changeling?
I am serious. He wants to be friends!
Right!
Not only are you Spike the Brave and Glorious, you're also Spike the Hilarious!
I'm not joking! The changeling is nice!
I'm sorry, but I don't think it's funny. The Changeling Queen Chrysalis kidnapped Cadance and cast a spell on me.
There's no such thing as a nice changeling.
You're right, Shining Armor. Sorry. That was a... bad joke.
So? So? Uh, what did they say? How many new friends do I have?
Well, it didn't go exactly the way I thought.
I think I might know!
Spike, if you're done searching for the changeling, Starlight and I could use your help. We're working on a protection spell for Flurry Heart, and nopony takes notes like you.
Uh, actually, Twilight, I, uh, wanted to introduce you to my friend, uh... Uh, Crystal, uh... Hoof! Crystal Hoof! [chuckles] My good friend, Crystal Hoof.
Nice to meet you.
Oh. Well, it's, uh, nice to meet you, too. How do you know Spike?
Oh, uh, Spike and I go way back.
To the Equestria Games! That's when we met. We've been pen pals ever since.
Pen pals? Spike! You could have been using my pen pal quill set! Why didn't you tell me?
Well, I... I pretty much only write to him when you and Starlight are... studying.
I like to brag to all my friends about my letters from Spike the Brave and Glorious.
Well, I'm sure Starlight and I can manage, if you want to spend time with your friend.
Great! Crystal Hoof promised to take me around the city.
Oh, that was amazing!
I told ya.
[hushed] Crystal Hoof is nearly as entertaining as Spike himself.
[gasps] This place is everything I've ever dreamed of! [hushed] But I can't keep pretending to be a Crystal Pony forever, can I?
Relax. You're winning them over. Pretty soon, nopony will care that you're a changeling.
Spike! Twilight told me you were off with a friend.
And any friend of Spike the Brave and Glorious is a friend of mine.
Oh, she's so beautiful! There's so much l-love around her...! I... I...!
I... [hisses] I'm so... [hisses] ...sorry...! I can't... Can't [hisses] ...stop!
Spike! Get away from the changeling!
Wait, no! You don't understand!
This changeling replaced your friend to get close to the baby! What other explanation could there be?!
I...
...I don't know.
After it! Don't let the changeling escape!
I hope your friend is okay.
Yeah... Me, too.
Spike, you should go find Crystal Hoof while we hunt down the changeling.
I'm pretty sure he doesn't wanna see me.
Spread out! The changeling is probably still nearby!
Actually, I'm pretty sure he ran as far away from here as possible.... But I bet I know where!
Thorax! Hello? I just want to apologize! I should have stood up for you... Aw, come on, Thorax! I know you're in here!
[yelps] [panting] Little help?
Why do you think I would help you? I'm an "evil changeling"!
It's okay, I know it's hard. Everyone in the Crystal Empire loves you. I couldn't ask you to give that up for me.
You don't have to ask.
What are you gonna do?
What I should've done in the first place.
I know it's bad that there's a changeling around, but is all this really necessary?
If there's one changeling, there may well be a whole army on the way.
True. But Starlight has a point. This is getting a little out of hand.
[sighs] I understand, but I don't know what else we can do.
I do!
Spike! What are you doing?! Get away from that thing!
No. He's not a "thing"! His name is Thorax, and he's my friend!
Would you say I'm a hero Glorious and brave If I told you something you wouldn't believe?
That sometimes I'm scared And I can make mistakes And I'm not so heroic, it seems
But if day can turn to night And the darkness turn to light Then why can't we imagine a changeling can change?
No two ponies are exactly the same No two snowflakes ever match their design And I thought I was strong But I was nothing but wrong When I forgot to be friendly and kind
But if day can turn to night And the darkness turn to light Then why can't we imagine a changeling can change?
Would you say I'm a hero Glorious and brave If I told you something you wouldn't believe?
This changeling, it seems Knows the real me And would stay by my side 'til the end
So if day can turn to night And the darkness turn to light Then why can't we imagine Just why can't we imagine Then why can't we imagine a changeling can change?
Spike, I'm so proud of you.
You are?
Of course! You're a celebrity here in the Crystal Empire, and you just risked all of it for a friend! I can't imagine anything more brave than that. [to others] As the Princess of Friendship, I try to set an example for all of Equestria. But today, it was Spike who taught me that a new friend can come from anywhere. I guess everypony still has things to learn about friendship. Even me! And if Spike says Thorax is his friend, then he's my friend too.
Thank you.
On behalf of the Crystal Empire, I would like to extend my hoof in friendship, and I'm sure all of my subjects are eager to do the same.
Welcome to the Crystal Empire, Thorax. I'm sorry we didn't take the time to get to know you. Maybe we can change that now.
That'd be so amazing! I want to know all about friendship, and maybe one day I can take that knowledge back to the Changeling Kingdom! If my kind learned how to create love for one another, maybe they wouldn't have to take it from others!
To Spike the Brave and Glorious!
Looks like you were right after all.
Right about what?
Friendship lessons can happen anywhere.
Tea?
Um, Princess Celestia's taking us on an overnight goodwill tour of Yakyakistan. I just found out.
[gasps] So what you're saying is no tea? Ugh. Well. [clears throat] That's fine. I wasn't thirsty anyway.
If you're looking for something to do, you could spend the evening with Spike and Big Mac.
You aren't kidding.
They're very nice. They have a "top secret" thing they do whenever we leave Ponyville. Although everypony knows about it, so it's not a very good secret. I think you'd have fun with them.
Fun? With sidekicks? Oh, you must think that we're in a dimension where everything is opposite. [snap] "Da-dee-la! I'm Opposite Discord, and I want to hang out with Spike and Big Mac! I'm sure I'd have fun!"
Well, guess what, Sassafras?! I'm Opposite Fluttershy, and I'm sick of being nice and quiet all the time!
[snap] Let me explain it to you as simply as I can. Me? Amazing! Them? Well, I've already forgotten who we're talking about. You see?
All I'm saying is it's an opportunity to expand your circle of friends. [coddling] Unless you're afraid they won't like you?
Oh, please. Don't stoop to tedious reverse psychology. You're better than that.
It never hurts to make new friends.
[scoffs] Consider it considered.
Couldn't I just come with you instead?
Discord...
[gasps] Well, it's not my fault the new train route leads into an active volcano. Guess you'll have to stay.
I got my bedroll, parka, unattractive but functional hikin' boots... Uh, anything I forgot, Pinkie Pie? You're our resident Yakyakistan expert.
Nope! I brought yeti food!
Did I forget to mention there's a pony-eating yeti on Frost Field Glacier? We're gonna have so much fun!
Heh. If he messes with us, I'll turn that yeti into confetti!
Heh. Somepony's in an awful quick hurry to get us out of here. Don't y'all have too much fun without us.
I bet you boys have big plans. Right, Spike?
I'm sure I don't know what you're talking about. Although if I did, I certainly wouldn't be allowed to discuss it with you girls.
Buh-bye!
Bye, y'all!
[whispering] Uh, I dunno what to say. I mean, I hope he comes but I kinda don't want him to think of it...
[hushed] Yup.
Fascinating article, yes? [nervous laugh] [hushed, to himself] Don't let them come over, please don't let them come over, please don't let them come over, please, please, please— [normal] Oh, salutations, my friend! Wish I could stay and chat, but I don't want to.
Wait! Um, we were wondering... What are you up to tonight?
[to himself] Oh, here we go...
Do you wanna, I don't know, hang out? Is that, like, something you do?
Oh, Twilight's friend and Applejack's monosyllabic brother, if only I weren't super busy this evening.
[to Big McIntosh] I guess guys' night will just be you and me.
A guys' night? You mean a rowdy evening of reckless revelry? Zoot suits, fedoras, swing dancing?
Eh, something like that. [nervous] You should totally come. Three of us would be way better than two...
That does sound fun, actually...
Too bad you're busy.
Well, I suppose I could squeeze you in if I move a few very important ponies around.
[gravelly accent] June, honey, be a dear. Reschedule Luna and Cay-Cay. [normal, aside] That's what I call Princess Celestia, what a hoot! [gravelly accent] In fact, clear the whole evening. Tonight is guys' night. These fellas invited me to spice things up and bring a little class to the whole affair.
[normal voice] Tonight will be the best night of your lives, and not just because you get to bask in my greatness.
I do like basking in things. See you tonight. [hushed] Twilight's castle. The fun starts promptly at sundown.
Technically, the fun starts when I arrive, but I'll make sure it's around sunset. Adieu, fellas.
And... we have sundown. Repeat, we have sundown. I declare tonight's guys' night ceremonies officially open!
Eeyup!
It's guys' night.
Yup.
Oh, yeah.
Yup.
Havin' fun now.
Yup.
Oh, yeah!
Oh, yeah!
What the hay?
Mini- [high-pitched] Announcing the much anticipated arrival of the spirit of chaos and disharmony, the purveyor of pandemonium, lord of lawlessness, earl of turmoil, bringer of bedlam... [imitating fanfare] Discord!
So, shall we hop to it? I made a list of the rowdiest establishments in Ponyville. It's rather short.
Actually, we're staying here. I hope you like awesome games!
Games? I love games. I'm great at games.
Famous pony charades? Oh, this is an easy one. Who am I? Huh? Huh?
Oh, come on!
Uh... I'm talkin' about a real game.
Oh, you mean like trapping best friend ponies in hedge mazes and turning them against each other. Those were the days.
Not exactly. Wait here.
Whatever it is, it can only get better by adding me to the mix.
[off-screen] Okay!
In a world where evil reigns supreme, a small band of warriors stands tall against the darkness. This is... Ogres & Oubliettes!
Oh, this looks like...
The best game ever? You're right!
Yes...
Ogres & Oubliettes is a fantasy role-playing adventure game. Our goal, defeat the evil Squid Wizard, or... [stifling laughter] as we call him... the Squizard!
[chuckling] [clears throat] The Squizard has laid siege to the last free city in Spiketopia. That's the name of the land. He's kidnapped a beautiful unicorn princess named Shmarity. [beat] Uh, which is like a normal name in Spiketopia, so, you know, don't think about it too much.
Fear not. Your romantic delusions are safe with me.
First things first – you've gotta create a character! Name?
How about... Discord?
[sighs] The whole point of the game is you get to use your imagination to be someone you're not. I'm Garbunkle, a famous magician. Everyone treats me with the utmost respect.
Just like in real life?
And don't get jealous, but I'm a level 30 Enchanter with major skill points assigned to Intellect and Perception.
[not listening] Go on, I'm listening.
Big Mac's character is Sir McBiggun, a level 27 Black Knight Unicorn from Castle Chadwick!
[still not listening] I'm listening.
When his king aligned himself with the Squizard, Sir McBiggun would not besmirch his honor.
Nnope!
[clears throat] [mumbling] I'm listening.
And so it came to pass, the magician and black knight vowed to rid Spiketopia of the evil Squizard.
So, your character's name?
I already have the best name in the universe. Why would I change it for something like "Captain Wuzz"?
Captain Wuzz it is!
What class are you, Captain Wuzz? There's Archers, Mages, Rogues...
[snorts] Can I suggest we take a break and, I don't know, go out and have some fun? Ponyville's not going to paint itself red.
You'll love it once we get started! [rolls die] How 'bout an Archer?
Sounds just as miserable as the other options. So fine.
Sir McBiggun, are you prepared to enter the world of Ogres & Oubliettes?
Eeyup.
Discord, or should I say, Captain Wuzz, are you—
Oh, get on with it.
[rolls dice] We find ourselves trapped in the dungeon of the evil Squizard. The bars are locked tight.
The bars exist in our imagination.
Really? You describe things, and then we pretend it's real?
It is real. In our imagination. It's your turn first. What do you wanna do?
Curse myself for attending this infernal evening? Ohhh, no, you mean in the game.
Well, you can do whatever you want. Then, I roll this twenty-sided die and see if you're successful.
I stick my head through the bars and demand for the immediate release of the Lord of Chaos.
That's a big risk. You have to roll a seventeen or higher to succeed. [rolls die] Ooh, bad idea. The guard gets mad.
This spell here. I transform him into a parsnip.
You need eleven Intelligent points to cast a Transform Into Root Vegetable spell.
I'm not intelligent? I cast it anyway because this game is stupid.
[rolls die] The spell backfires. So [stifling laughter] your claws grow leaves and transform into parsnips!
The guard laughs. He calls his friends over, and they laugh too.
Don't you laugh at me, Big Mac! Does it really say that? Let me see.
[rolls die] [laughs] As you get angrier, everypony laughs harder!
I seal Sir McBiggun in a magic bubble until he stops laughing!
I told you, you can't do magic!
Whoaa! Nope! Nope! Nope!
"Not intelligent enough." Please.
Cut it out, Discord!
Oh, this game is insufferable! Let me show you a real guys' night!
[laughing] This is the life! Jazz, dancing, the best table magic can buy! This is what guys' night is all about. Am I right, fellas?
Eeyup!
I know you probably didn't do this on purpose, but this table's the perfect size and shape!
I don't think so. Let's have a drink. Chocolate milkshakes?
[sighs] No, we want to go back to Ogres &—
Oh, how 'bout a different game? [magic zap] Those are very bad cards.
Stop messing with us! We wanna—
A dance contest?
Surprise! We won!
Discord!
[sinister] Yes?
Look, we don't wanna do these things. We wanna play our game. If you don't want to play with us, you can, I don't know, sit and watch.
Sit and watch? Fine. We'll play your game. [reverberating] Are you ready to enter the world of Ogres & Oubliettes?
Sir McBiggun?!
Eeyup!
And I'm... Garbunkle? That means... Sweetness! We're in the game! Check it out! Ka-zam!
It's guys' night!
Eeyup!
Oh, yeah!
Yup!
In the game now!
Yup!
Oh, yeah!
Oh, yeah!
Discord, where are you? This is great! You made the game real!
[reverberating] [laughs] Aren't games fun?
Should we be worried he's using his scary voice?
Behold! I am the Squizard!
[reverberating] [chuckles] You're welcome.
Attack!
Run!
[reverberating] You find yourself on the battlefield. A barrage of arrows rains down on you. If you roll a fifteen or higher, the shield protects you. Fourteen or lower and, well... [laughs] You get the idea.
Seventeen! Lucky you!
Boo.
Boo.
Discord!
Sir McBiggun, I'd cover the entrance if I were you.
This isn't funny!
Isn't this what every gamer wants? To live the game? Like this?!
Ugh!
[groans] This kinda hurts! Like, real pain!
Oh, how kind of you to notice. It's the little details that really bring alternate dimensions to life, wouldn't you say?
Discord, this is awful!
Of course it is! Spiketopia will be mine! And Rarity shall be my bride!
I mean, Shmarity.
Why are you doing this? You're the worst!
If I'm the worst, then why did you invite me?
Because we felt bad for you!
Because you... what?!
[panting] We're okay, we're okay! No thanks to you, Discord!
You felt sorry for me?
Who wouldn't? Fluttershy told us you practically begged her to stay! And then at the train station, you were just standing there, all alone!
This can't be. I'm supposed to feel sorry for you because I'm me and you're you.
[sighs] We only invited you to be nice! I mean, you're kind of a... weirdo!
Eeyup.
I ruined your night, and you don't even think I'm cool? Ugh. [zap] [muffled] How embarrassing. I should go. [normal] I have a lot of other friends I need to see tonight.
Good!
Yes, so many other friends. [whimpers] Farewell, Garbunkle the magician and brave Sir McBiggun. May providence smile upon thee in thy quest to rid Spiketopia of the dreaded Squizard... [sighs] When I say it that way, the game doesn't sound half bad.
Oh, well.
[sighs] It... it's better this way, right?
Eeyup.
Because... now he can't bother us, 'cause he's off somewhere by himself... all alone... with no friends.
Yup.
[sighs] [clears throat] [unenthusiastic] We find ourselves in the dungeon of the evil Squizard. The bars are locked, and... Ah, who am I kidding? We should give him another chance. [clears throat] Captain Wuzz? Can you hear me?
Oh! You realized how amazing I am and that I make you cooler just by being around me?
Uh... [stammering] No, no, actually, that's not what I meant to say... I'm... sssssss...
What?
I'm ssssssss—
Can't hear you.
Nope.
I'm trying to say I'm sorry, all right?! I'm sorry for ruining your game, and I'm sorry that I thought I was better than you! [pants] [quickly] Now let's play before this evening gets any sappier, shall we?
Huh? Yeah, yeah! Okay! What if we forgot the board and the pieces for a minute? I mean, the whole game coming to life was completely terrifying, but also kind of the best thing ever! So, uh, Big Mac and I were wondering... What if you toned it down just a teensy bit?
Huh?
I've got your back, Captain Wuzz!
Wha-hah!
[accented] Garbunkle! Follow my lead!
Bull's-eye!
Nice one!
It's guys' night!
Eeyup!
Oh, yeah!
Eeyup!
Having fun now!
Eeyup!
Oh, yeah!
Oh, yeah!
We should just close the door and let them finish... whatever this... is.
No way! Did you see Big Mac's sword? I totally want in!
Yeah! I don't know what it is, but it looks like super duper fun!
Guys' night!
Hey, Applejack! Whatcha doin'?
Whoa! Oof! Ugh! Well, I was practicin' my distance buckin'.
Uh, distance bucking? What for?
Because Cousin Braeburn and the rest of the Apple family in Appleloosa seem to think that their team can beat Ponyville at buckball.
What?! Ha! That's ridiculous! Nopony beats Ponyville! I mean, I could beat the whole town of Appleloosa at buckball with one wing tied behind my back!
So I can count on ya to join the Ponyville buckball team?
Oh, yeah! I am so there! I've just got one question.
Hmm?
Uh... what's buckball?
So, basically, buckball is the coolest game ever. Offense, defense, teamwork, nonstop action! It's got it all!
Wow, Rainbow Dash. You sure seem to know a lot about this game. I've never even heard of... buckball.
Yeah, I'm kind of an expert.
Hmph. An expert who hadn't heard of the game either until I told you.
Well, it's a new game. I probably know more than most ponies, so that makes me an expert.
I don't know anything about it at all. But it sounds like there's a ball and bucking, so I'm betting it's super duper fun!
The point is, my cousin Braeburn somehow convinced a Pegasus and a unicorn to come play with him on the Appleloosa team, and he can't stop braggin' about how his team is gonna beat ours!
But, um, we don't have a team.
Well, between Applejack and me, we've got two-thirds of a team. All we need is a unicorn. That's where you two come in.
[whispering loudly to Fluttershy] Uh... they know we're not unicorns, right?
Uh, obviously. You're gonna be on my team, and Fluttershy is gonna be on Applejack's team.
We'll play against each other along with whatever unicorns want to try out until we find the best one.
Ohhhh! Phew! That's a relief because I left my unicorn costume at home!
I know a lot of you are here because I told you what an amazin' game buckball is. And even though it's already an Apple family favorite, most o' you probably don't know anything about it. So I thought we'd give you a quick demonstration. The two Earth ponies are on offense. They meet in the middle of the field for the buckoff. They both try to be the first one to kick it.
And the Pegasus is on defense. She tries to keep the ball from going in the goal and passes it back to the Earth pony on her team. Just give it a little kick, Pinkie.
Yaah!
Aah!
Ohhh. I get it.
And all the unicorns have to do is float these here baskets around the outside of the field and catch as many balls as possible for their team. [to Pinkie and Fluttershy] You two get the idea?
Absolutely!
Oh, I don't know. That ball moves pretty fast.
All right. Now let's see which of you has what it takes.
Unicorn Player # Um, what do I do?
When the ball comes towards you, catch it.
Okay, just try your best, Pinkie. I have been doin' this a lot longer than you.
[grunts] Aah!
[dazzled] Nice kick.
Great save, Fluttershy!
Coming your way, Pinkie!
Somersault kick!
Hey, this game is easy!
Ooh! [giggles] It actually is kinda fun!
Where did Pinkie Pie learn to buck like that?
And Fluttershy's spinning tail catch is pretty amazing.
Um... okay. Well, let's see what the rest of you can do.
Now, don't expect to be able to beat me twice in a row.
Well, hello there, Mr. Ball. Whee!
Hiya!
Hurry along, butterflies, before that ball comes and hits you.
Aah!
Nope. Um... okay. Let's see what the rest of you can do.
Nope.
Definitely not.
No.
Not a chance.
No.
Nope.
Aaaand... no.
[groans] This didn't go how I thought it would.
Whee! [giggles, grunts] Yeah! Ha! [giggles] Whee! Ha ha!
It sure didn't.
This game is a whole lot more fun than I thought it would be.
It's exactly as much fun as I thought it would be! A whole bunch!
Carryin' my water My water, my water Carryin' my water On my shoulder pole
Snails! Look out!
Hmm?
Amazing!
You should be more careful with these. You could lose them.
Hey, Snails, can you float one of those baskets over here?
Hmm? Sure. What do you want me to do with it?
Catch!
Anything else?
Wow, Snails. You're a natural at buckball.
It's a good thing, too. We were running out of unicorns.
Do you think you'll be ready to play with Applejack and Rainbow Dash against the Appleloosa team?
I guess I'll find out. Plus, after I deliver this water, I don't really have anything else to do.
Well, Snails, with you on the team, Ponyville is one step closer to crushing Appleloosa!
Huh. And after today, it's pretty clear who the other two players should be.
W-What do you mean? I thought you and Dash were gonna play.
Yeah! If you're not crushing Appleloosa, who is?
[laughs] Uh, you two, obviously!
Um, you want us to play buckball against Appleloosa instead of you?
Mm-hmm.
That's "uncredible"!
Unbelievable and incredible? [scoffs] Come on!
I can't explain it, but you two are really good at this game. And if it means beatin' Appleloosa, I'll give either one of you my spot on the team quicker than Granny Smith can core an apple.
Me, too. I'd normally be so pumped all of Ponyville was counting on me to win, I'd run right over the competition. But you still flew rings around me.
Oh, I'm sorry. I was just having fun.
Well, you can have all the fun you want as long as it's while you're beatin' the hide off of Braeburn's team.
I do like fun!
Honestly, the game was a little scary at first, but once I got the hang of it, I had a pretty good time.
Let's get this party started!
All right. But if we really wanna beat Appleloosa, we're gonna have to get serious.
Serious?
Serious how?
With serious practice!
[gulps] Wow. This looks pretty intense.
Well, duh! You two are gonna be representing all of Ponyville. And, more importantly, us!
That's why, before we leave for Appleloosa tomorrow, you two are gonna practice just as hard as we would.
So let's hop to it! Snails already has a head start on you!
Okay, if you wanna win, you totally gotta get this drill down!
I-I-I do?
It's all about ball control.
[gasps] Whoa!
Ready? Go! Come on! Faster! You don't want Ponyville to lose because you can't get into high gear, do you?!
[gasps] Whoa! Ugh!
All right. Bein' able to buck a ball into a goal from any direction is the most important thing in the game.
Eh, if you say so.
Whee! Woo-hoo!
Keep it up! Just one miss'll ruin the Apple family's buckball reputation forever!
Whoops.
Come on! Push! Push! Push!
Come on, now! Every shot is for Sweet Apple Acres! And me! And Dash! And all of Ponyville!
Whoa! Uhh! Ow.
Faster!
Whoa!
Come on now!
Wh-Wh-Whoa!
Come on!
Keep it up!
Whoa!
Come on!
What in the apple happened to those two?
I don't know. They mopped the field with us before.
All right! That's it for today, y'all!
Phew!
I thought practice was supposed to make us better.
Maybe we just need a little rest.
Or a whole lot of it.
Just be sure to get your heads in the game before tomorrow. All of Ponyville is countin' on a win.
I really don't want to let Applejack and Rainbow Dash down, or anypony else, but after that practice, I'm not feeling very confident.
Maybe we weren't that bad!
I guess I was hoping you saw something I didn't.
I know our friends want us to win, but how can the whole town be counting on us if most ponies have never even heard of buckball?
I know! How can we disappoint a pony who doesn't even know we have a team?
Or that we're gonna play Appleloosa?
Pfft. Yeah. I don't think we need to worry. I'd be surprised if anypony in this town cares about this game at all.
Go, Ponyville! Go, Ponyville! Win, win, win! [background cheering] Woo-hoo! Ponyville! Way to go!
Whoa. The whole town really seems to care about this game a lot.
Heh. We kinda went around town and talked up the team a little.
Yup! We wanted to make sure you two knew that all of Ponyville was behind you!
[nervous] Greaaaaat...
I hear the whole town's already plannin' a parade for when you get back after whuppin' Appleloosa! That should feel pretty good!
[nervous] It should...?
Totally! Just spend the whole ride to Appleloosa thinking about everypony cheering for the victorious Ponyville buckball team! [gasps] I bet Princess Celestia even comes to congratulate you! If that doesn't get you in "the zone", I don't know what will!
I don't know what zone Rainbow Dash is talking about, but I'm pretty sure I don't want to be in it. Do you?
Hey! You two are supposed to be in the zone!
[squeaks] You see... the thing is... thinking about everypony... thinking about us...! Aah! There's just no way to...!
There's no way that we can get in the zone, because the zone sounds like a horrible place since we are terrible at buckball and we are going to lose and let everypony down and we don't want to play anymore!
I'm still okay with playing, in case you were worried.
I don't get it. They're naturals! Why wouldn't they want to play anymore?
Maybe us telling them how much everypony was countin' on them messed them up somehow.
What?! That's crazy talk! Having ponies depend on you is exactly what you need to focus! And—
Get serious and play hard and—
Get ready to totally smash the competition, and— and... none of that sounds like Pinkie or Fluttershy, does it?
[sighs] Guess not. We got so wrapped up in what's important to us, we went and ruined what was fun about the game for them.
[groans] What do we do now?
Pinkie? Fluttershy?
We know you're in here! We've looked in every other car on the train!
[muffled] Maybe you need to look again!
[muffled] Yeah! Because... we're totally not in here!
[muffled] And we're definitely not in here if you're gonna try and make us play against Appleloosa!
Or anypony else!
Oh... we're sorry to let you down. But it's better to do it now than during the game against Appleloosa.
You don't have to play against Appleloosa.
We don't?
Nope. We're gonna take your place. So you don't have to worry about that at all.
[sighs] Why didn't you say so?
But... we can't take on Braeburn and his team without any practice. So we need you to play just one more time.
Against us.
Now I know we mixed up the teams before, but since Dash and I really need the practice, we'll play against the two of you.
Oh, I don't know how much practice you'll get against us. We've been playing just awful.
Don't worry about it. Applejack and I just need a little workout.
Yup. You two just do your best.
I can do that!
Ahem.
[grunts] Huh!
Looks like you two really do need practice!
Hee-hee! Ha! Whee!
[giggling] If you need more practice, we can keep going.
Yeah! I could do this all day!
[panting] No, thanks. Playing against you two is just as humiliating now as it was when we weren't trying to show you how awesome you are.
Wait... what?
Finally!
You must've noticed how you aren't bad anymore.
Oh, yeah! Weird!
But, um, why were we so terrible before?
I guess some ponies thrive on pressure and some ponies don't. And even though we weren't playing, we were treating you like us, which totally stressed you out.
And that just sucked the fun right out of the game for you.
And having fun is what makes you really, really, really good!
But being good doesn't matter if we're too afraid of letting ponies down.
Yeah! What about all those ponies back in Ponyville counting on us to win?
I'm sure folks want you to win, but not if worrying about it makes you miserable. Winning's never worth that.
But how do we keep from worrying about it?
You could do what I do and not think about it. Seriously. I don't think about anything. Ever.
Hm. Works for me!
And with another bouncing goal from Pinkie Pie, the score is tied!
You guys are amazing!
[panting] Braeburn is really good!
So is that Pegasus. Oh, I don't know if we can win.
You know what I would do?
Not think about it?
Not think a— [beat] Oh, yeah. That.
Ha. And as long as you're havin' fun, it doesn't matter if you win or not.
[giggles] I think it's more fun this way!
And Pinkie wins the buckoff! But her shot's rejected! Back to Braeburn, whose kick's stopped by another Fluttershy save! Next point wins. Lots of tense back and forth here. Fluttershy unleashes her patented spin move, but Braeburn's there to— No! It's Pinkie with a somersault kick! What a move! And that's the game! Ponyville wins!
[chanting] Ponyville! Ponyville! Ponyville! Ponyville! Ponyville! Ponyville! Ponyville!
Huh. Looks like you three made quite an impression!
Well, cousin, I have to admit. Your Ponyville team played a pretty good game.
Hah! Good game? We bucked the hooves right off of you!
Yup, you sure as shootin' did. I'm gonna have to get real serious about a strategy for our rematch.
Oh, I wouldn't get too serious.
Yeah! Everypony knows the secret to good buckball is just having fun!
So Scootaloo's keeping Petunia busy like you asked. What did you two want to talk about?
Mrs. I'm sure you get these questions all the time. Oh, this is so awkward.
Mr. Um, you're the experts, so we thought you'd have some insight into our daughter's new, uh, cutie mark.
What's wrong?
Mrs. Obviously, we're both very proud of her and her cutie mark...
Mr. Despite its, um... unsettling nature.
Unsettling?
I don't get what you mean.
Mrs. Her mark doesn't... bother you at all?
Hey! Check out what we found!
Look! A spiny-backed ponysaurus! In our own backyard! And I found him on my very own! How cool is that?!
Mrs. Paleo and Mr. Oh! [chuckles] She's an archaeologist.
Of course! What'd you think she was gonna be, a pirate?
Mrs. Pirate? Pfft! Why would we think that?
Woo-hoo! Another successful cutie intervention! You know, Crusaders, I don't wanna toot our own horn, but we've helped a lot of ponies figure out their purpose in life. Like Bluenote here. Nice saxophone, Bluenote!
Yep, everywhere you look, there's a pony we've helped find a purpose.
You've gotta admit. We've had a pretty good effect on everypony since we've discovered our destiny.
And started helping other ponies discover theirs! Could this get any better or what?
Now, Scootaloo, you do know there will always be challenges? Someday, somepony might even come to us with a problem that even we can't handle. Like, say...
A griffon?
Ha! Exactly! Like a griffon. But that's just crazy talk.
Or not!
Is that really a griffon?
You're darn tootin' it is! What do you think that griffon wants?
I guess we've gotta ask her, but aren't griffons supposed to be kind of mean and cranky?
Crusaders, looks like we've gotta step carefully.
[strained voice] Aah! Ooh! This... griffon's... not... cranky.
How in the blooming apples did you know who we are?
Know who you are? Know who you are?! Why, I've heard about you from everypony in Ponyville! I'm so excited to meet you, I could just explode! I'm Gabriella, but you can call me Gabby since we're friends now! Pleased to meet ya!
Well, howdy... um... Gabby.
[squeals] I'm just about the most excited anygriffon has ever been about anything!
Excited? But whatever for?
What for? What for?! Everypony in town tells me of your amazing assistance! How you help ponies find their place in the world!
It's a calling, but—
And that's why I'm here. I need help, too. I want you to give me a cutie mark!
Um, can a griffon even get a cutie mark?
I dunno, but I think we should probably find out.
So, Gabriella...
Gabby, 'kay?
Gabby, why do you even want a cutie mark?
It doesn't seem like a very... griffon-y thing to want.
Right? Right?! Right?!
You're tellin' me! I don't know if you've heard, but griffons can be a little bit... unfriendly.
[voiceover] Most griffons don't pay much attention to each other. And if they do, it's not, y'know, the good kind of attention. As for me, I'm just a little mail delivery griffon who likes to spread a little bit of griffon-y sunshine on my rounds, which always makes me feel different from the other griffons.
[voiceover] I'd do anything for any old griffon in need.
Ahh! Uhh!
[voiceover] But it just always seemed like the harder I tried, the less I fit in. It wasn't until your friends came to Griffonstone that I realized some creatures actually like helping each other, and I saw something so awesomely awesome – how helping spreads from pony to pony and griffon to griffon! I knew then that I had to find out why I was so different from the other griffons, and I knew the answer just had to have something to do with those wonderful, amazing marks on the ponies' flanks. And I admit, hehe, I became, um, maybe a little obsessed. So first chance I had to deliver a letter from Gilda, I took it, so I could find the perfect pony to help me understand what those marks are. Everypony here told me one thing – I just had to see the Cutie Mark Crusaders! They've helped everypony here get their cutie marks, and I knew, I just knew, that someday I'd have one, too! A cutie mark of my very own!
That's why I flew all the way here! I want to find my own place in the world, and I know you can help me by giving me a cutie mark! So let's make with the cutie! [giggles] Whenever you're ready. Did it happen yet?
Uh, not exactly.
Howboutnowhowboutnowhowboutnowhowboutnow?
Um, Gabby, I hate to break it to ya, but it sounds like you might've heard some tall tales about what Crusaders can do.
I mean, we are kinda awesome and all, but nopony can just give you a cutie mark. It just sort of... happens.
Though I'm pretty sure it doesn't happen to griffons. Or if it does, we've never ever heard of it.
Oh. I hadn't thought of that. Sounds like a challenge! And who could be up to it but the world-famous Cutie Mark Crusaders? Cutie marks! It's in your name and everything, right? Right?! Right?! Now I have to deliver Gilda's letter to Rainbow Dash. I bet by the time I get back, you'll have it one hundred percent figured out! Toodles for now! Whee-hee-hee! Gonna get my cutie mark!
What she wants... It's not possible, right?
I don't know. But I know someone who just might.
I've read every book on the subject, and I've never read a thing about any creature other than a pony getting a cutie mark.
But, Twilight, Gabby flew all the way here so we could help her. There's gotta be something we can do.
Say, is there some kind of spell you can whip up to make her mark appear?
Um, I don't know if any of you remember, but using magic to get a cutie mark never really works out all that well.
Ohhh. Right.
Crusaders, I'm sorry. While I can't say for certain that it's utterly impossible, the chances of Gabby getting an actual mark are... pretty slim. Everything I've ever learned tells me. It's just not gonna happen.
Oh, no! Poor Gabby! What the apples are we ever gonna tell her?
Crusaders, this is terrible! Gabby really believed in us. And now, we're gonna let her down.
But what else can we do?
Hmm. You know what, Crusaders? So what? Maybe we can't help Gabby get a cutie mark, but we can still do what we're best at. We can help her find her purpose!
And I reckon doing that is the same for griffons as it is for ponies or any other creature in Equestria.
All we have to do is be extra-special clear with her. Like, Crystal Empire clear.
Yeah!
Incoming!
Hiya, you wonderful, wonderful Crusaders! I just know you've figured out how to help me because you're all so incredible!
Well, Gabby, we've talked it over, and we think we may just be able to help you out. But not exactly in the way you think. See, here's the thing about you getting a cutie mark—
Wait! You didn't let me finish!
Um, I think maybe that could've been clearer.
She's still going. Anypony know if griffons ever get tired?
What do you think my mark will be? A lightning bolt? An erupting volcano? I don't care if it's a jar of marmalade! I know I'll love it, whatever it is!
Hold on just a hoofstep, Gabby. There's somethin' we need to clear up. We can definitely help you find your purpose, but that mark's probably not gonna happen.
What?!?
It's true. Twilight's never heard of a creature other than a pony getting a cutie mark.
Oh! [laughs] Is that all? You had me worried for a second. I-I mean, there's a first time for everything, right? And she didn't say it was impossible, right?
Well, not exactly.
Well, then if anypony can make it happen, it's you three. I mean, you haven't failed yet.
You know what, Gabby? I promise we're gonna do everything we can to help you get your mark.
Aaaaand... she's off again.
Why in tarnation would you promise somethin' that just can't be done?
I know what it's like to want something that's out of reach. And just because it hasn't happened yet doesn't mean it can't. Maybe trying for the impossible isn't so bad.
Guess we'll never know for sure unless we give it a try.
All right, but where do we even start?
Where we always do – with a good old-fashioned Crusaders chart.
The first thing we gotta do is find your purpose.
Nopony gets a mark without one.
All right. Let's do this.
What are you good at? Do you play any sports?
Or like to dance?
Or how about singing? I just love to sing! La-la-la-la!
Wow! I kinda wanna just try everything! I mean, I don't even know what to pick!
Don't worry. That's what we're here for.
Like a racer at the starting line You're chomping at the bit
You are here to find your purpose And a place you really fit
And until you find your place in life You're never gonna quit
We can help you find the purpose in your life
A griffon mixes lion's strength With winged eagle's might When I finally find my purpose Then my cutie mark's in sight
Crusaders, I won't let you down I've just begun to fight You're gonna help me find the purpose in my life
Got a job that's just no fun? Call on me, I'll get it done Cauldron's stuck and needs a mix? I'm the one who's got the fix
Help you teach pre-calculus Scrub the floors, won't make a fuss Clearing kelp? Just give a yelp Raring to go, ready to help!
That's the spirit You ought to see what you do best Try it all, pick your fave And leave behind the rest
I'll try anything To get my cutie mark Keep up with me, Crusaders We're just getting our start
Rock your little ones to sleep While hanging up the sheets I can help you with your heavy load Walk Granny 'cross the street
I'll run you 'round the bases fast It's really no big feat
Can we help her find the purpose in her life?
Cheer you if you're feeling low Plant your garden, make it grow Write a piece for your quartet Filling in on clarinet
Bake that cake as fast as lightning
She's so good at things, it's frightening Cutie Mark Crusaders, I think we've got a problem!
Build a boat And sail it out across the sea Need some help? You know that you can count on me
CMCs, you're gonna help me find my purpose The purpose in my life! In my life!
Now how we gonna do this?
Gabby's special purpose can't be everything, right?
It may as well be. I don't know how we find what she's supposed to do when she can do it all.
[sighs] And if finding her purpose seems impossible, we can just forget about the whole griffon-getting-a-cutie-mark thing, which is actually impossible. I never should've gotten her hopes up!
I did... it... all! So, lay it on me, Crusaders. What's my purpose? And how do we get a mark on these here haunches?
Gabby, we... we don't.
Wait. What are you saying?
We're sayin' that since you can do everything so amazingly well...
We just can't figure out what one thing you're supposed to do.
Gabby, we can't help you.
But, but... you're the world-famous Cutie Mark Crusaders! I can't believe it! I... I... I won't believe it!
Gabby, wait!
We're sorry! We're so, so sorry! This is just awful. For the first time ever, the Cutie Mark Crusaders are cutie mark failures.
I'm sorry, Crusaders. I really thought we could help Gabby.
I thought we could help anypony.
Maybe that's just it – maybe we can only help ponies.
Or maybe we just plain failed.
Failed? Then what do you call this?!
A cutie mark?!
What? You got your mark after all! Even though we couldn't find your purpose? But– What? Huh?! How?!
And what does it mean? A cauldron?
Uh... I don't know. Maybe it means my purpose is, uh, helping Zecora with potions. That was the first thing I tried. I guess it just took some time to appear. But here it is!
This is awesome! We're not failures! Whatever we did worked! I had a feeling we could help you, and we did!
Oh! We've gotta go see Twilight right away! She'll wanna know about this!
Correction – she needs to know about this! I bet she'll want to write a whole book about the very first griffon to get a cutie mark of her own!
Oh, uh, totally! Um, but, you know, Rainbow Dash asked me to pick up her answer to Gilda's letter. I better take care of that before I forget. Heh. Here's an idea. Uh, y-you head to the castle, and I'll meet you there, cutie mark and all! Um... toodles!
Wow! Can you believe it? We were able to help her get her mark after all! Come on, Crusaders, let's tell Twilight!
Gabby? You just missed her. She was in such a hurry, she didn't even come in. Just dropped this letter and zoomed away!
[reading] "Dear Crusaders, I'll never forget you. You really are every bit as awesome as I'd heard. I'm heading home to tell all the griffons how you did the impossible by getting me my cutie mark. Toodles."
Wait a second. Cutie mark?
You actually got a griffon a cutie mark for the first time in recorded history?! You know what this calls for? A full-scale research project!
This makes no sense. Gabby didn't come in and show you her mark?
You have got to get Gabby back here right away! I have so many questions! Oh, I hope I have enough ink and parchment to document everything! Spike! Guess what just happened!
Weird. Gabby didn't show Twilight her mark like she said she was gonna do? Somethin' in this here applesauce smells kinda fishy.
We'd better find her and find out what's going on. Come on, Crusaders.
Keep your eyes on the skies, ponies. Gabby can't have gone far.
She's not in the air. She's right there! Gabby! Hold up, we're a-comin'!
Gabby, we're your friends. Why in Equestria are you running away from us?
Running away? Oh, I'm not running away. I'm just, uh, e-excited to show my lovely new cutie mark to everyone in Griffonstone!
You mean the cutie mark that's runnin' right off your flank?
[defeated] Yup... That's the one. I guess the one thing I'm really not good at is faking things.
Wow, Gabby. Painting on a fake cutie mark to make yourself feel better? You must have been really upset.
Sure, I was disappointed. But I didn't do it to make myself feel better. I wanted to make you feel better.
I couldn't bear you three thinking you failed after you tried so hard to help. That's why I had to leave before you or Twilight found out the truth. [sighs] I'm sorry I wasn't honest with you. I'll just wing my way back to Griffonstone. Thanks for trying.
You don't need to apologize for carin' about how other ponies are feelin'.
I'm just sorry we couldn't come through for you.
Hmmm... Maybe we can. Gabby, clean up and meet us at the Crusaders' clubhouse!
I know you all tried your very best, but I guess griffons and cutie marks just don't mix. Maybe... I don't even have a special purpose.
Hang on a second. We were racking our brains trying to figure out your destiny, until we remembered how every time you did something new, you tried to help everypony around you.
Even us. How did it feel when you showed up with that fake mark, and the three of us thought we'd actually helped you?
Well... I was really glad I helped you feel happier.
So maybe helping is your thing! You might even say it's your purpose!
But helping just feels good. I-It couldn't have anything to do with what I'm supposed to do with my life... right?
Gabby, finding your special purpose doesn't have to be about being good at something. It's about feeling good about something inside.
And it looks like your destiny is a whole lot like ours – helping others. And you don't need a symbol on your flank to know that.
But since we are the Cutie Mark Crusaders, we made you one anyway. Behold!
Your very own cutie mark! Ta-da!
We carved it to mark the moment we all figured out what you should do with your life.
You bet we do! You're one of us now! Gabby, today we dub thee...
The very first griffon member of the Cutie Mark Crusaders! Woo-hoo!
You may not be able to get a cutie mark...
But you're selflessly dedicatin' your life to helpin' others anyhow. I can't think of anything more Crusader-y than that.
Awesome! My very own cute-ceañera!
Oh, land sakes! You sure have earned it.
And so have we! Scootaloo, you're pretty amazing. Even though things looked bleak, you still found a way to help Gabby in the end.
'Course! Helping's what we do, right?
[laughing] I am so grateful! I'm gonna go home and do my very, very best to bring Cutie Mark Crusader values to Griffonstone! I promise.
Promise us one other thing, too?
Come back soon!
After all, you're a Crusader now. Crusaders forever?
Crusaders forever!
The map is sendin' us where?!
Las Pegasus?!
But Las Pegasus is a wild vacation spot! It's just one big party!
All those lights and sounds, not to mention the crowds... Oh, just the thought of it is overwhelming!
I know Las Pegasus doesn't seem like either of your cups of tea, but I have total faith you wouldn't have been called unless you were the perfect ponies for the job.
Probably not as bad as we think. It can't just be a loud, obnoxious party all the time... right?
Uh, Applejack? It isn't as bad as we thought.
You're right. It's worse!
Do you think the map could be on the fritz again? I mean, this place seems a lot more suited to Pinkie Pie or even Rainbow Dash.
If Twilight trusts the map, then so do I. All we have to do is solve our friendship problem and get back home. 'Course, we have to find it first.
And make sure to experience our signature show, Ponet Fantastique! Trust me when I say you've never seen anything like it! Unparalleled acrobatics! Unique animal antics! Your only regret will be that you didn't see it sooner! And like everything at this amazing, incredible, I-can't-believe-it-even-exists hotel, Ponet Fantastique is brought to you by the chairpony of kindness – Gladmane himself!
Wow. This Gladmane sure seems impressive.
Well, uh, it is a little embarrassing, but the crowds seem to like it. Uh-huh-huh.
Mr. Gladmane?
Just Gladmane'll do. And it's a pleasure to meet actual cohorts of the Princess of Friendship! Thank you for coming. Thank you very much.
You know who we are?
I'm what you might call a friendship connoisseur, so naturally I'm familiar with the friends of the great Twilight Sparkle! Applejack, Fluttershy, it's an honor to have you here. Uh-huh-huh.
I have to admit you're not the type of pony I expected to find in Las Pegasus.
[laughs] Well, my guests may be looking for lights, music, and parties, but working hard and making friends is how I turned this hotel into what it is today, and how I plan to make it even bigger. Uh-huh-huh! Uh, excuse me for a second. [inhales] [through loudspeaker] Wise ponies may say the folks that come here are customers, but I can't help but thinkin' of each and every one of you as friends. That's why there's a three-for-one special on apple fritters in the cafe for the next hour! Enjoy! Uh-huh-huh!
Would you two like to take a tour of the place? I'm just about to do my rounds and check on my friends who work here.
[hushed] We do have a friendship problem to find.
Lead the way, Mr. Gladmane!
Just Gladmane now, you hear?
[gasps] Gladmane, you're just in time to see my newest move!
New moves or not, I'm glad to have a star like you working for me, I'll tell you what.
Oh, don't make me blush! Now watch this!
Stellar! Uh-huh-huh!
Oh! Oh! Monsieur Gladmane himself is here! Let's run through the whole routine!
Now, don't make a fuss for ol' me. I'm just gonna keep on giving a tour to my new friends Applejack and Fluttershy.
Howdy!
Hi.
If zis pony calls you friend, you're welcome backstage anytime! I owe him my entire career.
Aw, shucks. Well, let's leave the artists to their work.
[hushed] Doesn't look like there's any friendship problems here.
[gasps] I've never seen a pink prairie dog before!
I like the folks that come here to have a unique experience. Uh-huh-huh.
"Roar Horn": Und we love him for it!
"Sprigfield": With Gladmane's help, we've been able to take care of all these little guys!
Now this place is overwhelming in a good way!
Aw, glad you like it.
[clears throat] Fluttershy?
Hmm? Oh, um, coming!
There doesn't seem to be anything wrong around here at all.
I figured lookin' for a friendship problem in Las Pegasus would be like tryin' to find a needle in a stack of needles. But everypony seems to be gettin' along just fine.
Ladies and gentleponies, despite what my competition might say, I know you've come to this fair city to be entertained, and I assure you there is nothing more entertaining than the astounding acrobatics in Gladmane's Ponet Fantastique!
Now, I suppose that might be true if it weren't for the existence, and far superiorly entertaining presence, of the show-stopping exotic animal act that Ponet Fantastique includes!
Those voices sound familiar.
They sure do. Flim and Flam.
Why, I won't even dignify that assertion with a response! Except to say that if you were to consider buying your tickets from me, I might consider offering them to you at a substantial discount!
But I've always thought you get what you pay for, and in my humble opinion, these tickets are a value at twice the price!
Don't let this price-gouging charlatan take you for a ride!
[gasps] Charlatan? How dare you!
Hah! How dare I?!
[simultaneous] Yes, how dare you! I was the one that...
[simultaneous] I call 'em likes I see them, dear brother of mine!
[simultaneous, background] I'm two minutes older than you – don't you forget that, brother of mine!
[simultaneous, background] I'm sick and tired of this...
They certainly don't seem to be getting along. [gasps] You don't suppose we've been brought here to help them?
Absolutely not!
I know you and the rest of the Apple family have had your issues with Flim and Flam in the past, but they're definitely having trouble, and solving a friendship problem is important, no matter who's having it.
Well, of course that's true... for anypony but them!
I'm sorry you had to see that. I don't know why, but those two have been fightin' ever since they got here. I thought giving them these jobs might help, but I... I guess it just made matters worse.
Trust me. I know those ponies, and you're better off with them apart. The two of them together will cheat the hooves right out from under you!
Yeah, I suppose you're right. Flim's such a showpony, and Flam has such a head for business. Why, if they ever did work together, they'd be running this place in two shakes! Ah, speaking of which, I'd better get back to work. Y'all enjoy your stay now, you hear?
I'm pretty sure we should help Flim and Flam...
And I'm pretty sure there's another friendship problem here, and I'm gonna search this resort top to bottom 'til I find it!
I hope you didn't travel all the way from Ponyville to try to get me to reconcile with my no-account brother.
Brother? I don't believe I have one of those.
No! I already know what he thinks of me! All show and no substance! Well, if he's so smart, he should have no trouble becoming a big success on his own!
"Ooh, why, he's the greatest salespony that ever lived, of course!" Just ask him. He'll tell you all about it.
I'm sure you could work out your differences if you just sat down and talked to each other.
I'm never speaking to that pony again!
[muffled] No! [normal] You are ruining my show!
It isn't just your show, and I'm improving it.
You don't pull a rabbit out of a hat on the trapeze!
That's the point – to give the audience something they've never seen before! Acrobatic magic!
Ta-da!
It's called "blending genres", and it's awesome!
Shouldn't somepony do somethin'?
"Back Stage": Hah. They've been doing this since they started working here. Too bad, really. If they ever stopped shouting at each other, we could take the show on tour. They'd be way more successful than staying at Gladmane's.
Heh-heh. Now that sounds like a real friendship problem!
"Roar Horn": Hup! Hup! Hup! Hup!
"Sprigfield": Stop! What are you doing?! It's supposed to be a pink prairie dog pyramid! It's alliterative!
"Roar Horn": Wha— You said a tower! Why do you keep changing everything?
"Sprigfield": I'm not changing anything! You said pyramid!
"Roar Horn": [shrieks] You are driving me crazy!
I thought you two got along.
Two friendship problems in the same theater? Now we're talkin'!
If you count Flim and Flam, that's three big friendship problems all in the same place!
Well, I don't count Flim and Flam since those two not bein' friends isn't a problem.
It certainly isn't for Gladmane. Sounds like he's better off with them fighting.
Actually, the other ponies' problems seemed to be good for Gladmane too. Both the trapeze show and the animal act would be better off if they left, but everypony's so busy arguin' that they can't.
Do you think he knows?
I don't know, but I'm startin' to think we should find out.
Of course Gladmane wants everypony to get along. He's the nicest, most genuine pony I've ever met. Did the director put you up to this?
I tell you, if Gladmane is your friend, you are welcome backstage. But if you are speaking of him poorly, you leave!
"Roar Horn": Gladmane is the kindest, most gentle...
"Sprigfield": ...most compassionate pony I've ever known!
"Roar Horn" and "Sprigfield": My problem... is with him!
I just can't figure it! The only pony who benefits from all this feudin' is Gladmane, but by all accounts, he's the best friend any of these ponies have!
Well, Bernard – that adorable bunny from the acrobat's act – claims that every morning, Gladmane tells the director that the star wants control of the show, and every afternoon tells the star that the director wants to get rid of her! But neither is true!
And the Flying Prairinos – the pink prairie dog family – say Gladmane keeps changing their act to make each trainer think the other is doing it!
So all his talk about friendship is just a load of applesauce! He's gettin' them all to fight with each other on purpose!
But how can we get everypony to believe that's what he's doing?
There must be a way to trick him into telling the truth!
Gee, if only there was a pony who knew how to trick a trickster.
Or maybe a pair of ponies?
[sighs] Fine. Guess bringin' Flim and Flam back together might be why we're here. Maybe.
Sorry if I don't take the word of somepony off the street, even if that street is in Ponyville.
But Gladmane is behind so many other friendship problems. How can you be sure he isn't the cause of yours?
Because the only problem I have is standing right there.
Same here, buster!
Do either of you even know what you're fightin' over?
Gladmane let me know that ex-brother of mine thinks I'm just a mouthpiece without a single good idea!
Gladmane assured me this former fraternal foal here thinks I couldn't sell heat lamps to yaks!
Sounds to me like neither of you said those things. Why'd you believe Gladmane when he said you did?
Why would he lie?
Because he's afraid that the two of you together could move in and take over his resort.
And if I'm tellin' you he said it, you know it's the absolute truth because—
You never lie!
Oh, brother of mine, I think it's time for a little payback!
The Canterlot Two-Step?
Mmm, we don't have the chickens. How about the Baltimare Flair?
Ah, my flair isn't what it used to be.
[over loudspeaker] Listen here, y'all! If you're a friend of mine, you're entitled to a free night's stay, and everypony is a friend of mine! Thank you. Thank you very much.
Are you thinking what I am?
The High Roller Hustle!
The what now?
Trust us. When we're done, there won't be a pony in town who doesn't know the Applejack-iest truth about Gladmane! That is, assuming you two are willing to help.
What size gown do you wear?
Wh-What's all the fuss, now?
It's the grand matriarch of the Rich family, Impossibly Rich! She's one of the wealthiest ponies in Equestria.
Well, why didn't somepony tell me? You know how I like to give VIP guests my personal touch.
Well, she's not exactly a guest. Word is she's planning a resort of her own. [hushed] I think she's here to scout the competition.
[hushed] Oh, really?
And with her bits, she could take over the whole strip, hire away anypony she wants!
Uh, not me, of course! I love it here. My good-for-nothing brother, on the other hoof...
[snorts] Impossibly Rich, what an honor it is to have you at my humble five-hoof resort. I'm sure Flam has done an excellent job showing you around, but nothing could beat a personalized tour from the mane himself. Uh-huh-huh.
You'll have to excuse Ms. Rich. She saves the energy other ponies spend talking out loud and uses it to make more money.
She'd love a personal tour! Say, in, uh, about an hour?
Well, that sounds right pleasant. And if you can break away for a moment, Flam, I'd love to see you in my office so I can get ready.
Are all of you sure this is a good idea?
Abso-tively!
Gladmane is one fish that's hooked but good!
I sure hope you two know what you're doin'.
Oho, don't you worry. When it comes to throwing ponies off their game...
No two ponies do it better than us!
Can't argue with that.
Hey there, boss, Impossibly Rich is just about ready for that tour. So what did you want to see me about?
Actually, there's something I want you to see – the Grand Plan. Every hotel on this strip as amazing as this one, and every one of 'em mine.
And all it'll take is a little salesponyship, like this.
[over loudspeaker] Hey there, friends. Uh-huh-huh. If you think my resort is fantastic, wait 'til you see Ponet Fantastique! Tickets are on sale now. Two for the price of one! Thank you. Thank you very much.
Now I know Impossibly Rich has probably made you a tempting offer to come work for her.
Well uh, now that you mention it...
And as your friend, I'd never tell you what to do. But nopony's gonna stand in the way of my plans, no matter how rich she is! And I sure wouldn't want you to end up on the losing side. Think you might consider staying here?
Um...
Well all right then.
They're comin'!
And last but not least, Ms. Rich, the jewel in my crown.
Impossibly wants you to know she's very impressed but doesn't think you can keep a resort of this caliber going for long.
Oh? And why's that?
Because you've got the best talents in the industry. What stops them from just leaving to join any competitor?
[laughs] Well, you see I have a trick for that, I must confess. Uh-huh-huh. And it all has to do [also over loudspeaker] with how I handle my employees.
And how is that?
[also over loudspeaker] Well, like friends, of course! And I treat every one of my employees with the kindness they deserve.
[stammering] That's it? That's your secret, heh-heh? There's... [clears throat] ...nothing else?
Nope, just friendship. But you know all about friendship, don't you... Fluttershy?!
You knew the whole time?
Never try to con a con-pony. Uh-huh-huh. [laughs] Yeah!
I'd have thought you'd have hit the road by now.
Whether we were able to fool you or not, you can't just go on keeping ponies from getting along! It's just... mean!
Now, maybe it is. But it's a meanness that works. Unlike your pathetic little ploy. I practically invented the "High Roller Hustle". But I suppose I should be impressed. You're the only ponies to ever figure out the secret to my success. Takes a lot of work keepin' everypony fightin'. But as long as I keep 'em convinced that I'm their only friend, all of Las Pegasus will be mine. Oh, you can't trick a confession out of a pony like me! I'm always one step ahead.
Well, you better check your hooves, because you've just stepped in a confession!
Oh, no. No, no, w-w-wait, wait!
[over loudspeaker] Did that sound okay?
Never better!
[over loudspeaker] Flim and Flam told us you'd see right through the fake rich pony bit, and that once you did, you wouldn't be able to resist gloatin' about it! This was all part of the plan!
Oh, now, now, friends! Listen, I-I can explain everything!
I think you've done enough of that! Darling?
Hmph!
"Roar Horn": Oh, I cannot believe we let him almost ruin our friendship!
"Sprigfield": And our act. Good luck finding another one!
Gladmane has left the buildin'!
I guess the map wasn't on the fritz after all.
If it weren't for your history with Flim and Flam, you never would've been so determined to find somepony else to help, and we never would have found out what Gladmane was doing.
And if it weren't for you wantin' to show even those two con-ponies kindness, we never would have been able to trick the trickster. [to Flim and Flam] Must've felt pretty nice to finally put all your connivin' and cheatin' skills to good use.
In fact, we might think of it as a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity.
Emphasis on "once".
[suspiciously] What do you mean?
[over loudspeaker] While this establishment undergoes a slight change in management, my brother and I want to assure you that it remains the pinnacle of Las Pegasus entertainment! Which is why we invite each and every one of you to experience the wonder of the Ponet Fantastique Theater – at half the normal cost of admission!
[over loudspeaker] And while you're appreciating this historic venue totally devoid of any performers of any kind, we invite you to use the wonder of your own imaginations to fill the space at no additional charge!
Flim and Flam!
[yawns] I've prepared a full day of spells. You've been doing great, but now it's time for a real challenge!
Oh-ho-ho! It is on! Where do we begin?
Teleportation! Multiple locations! Try to keep up!
Transfiguration!
Shields!
Whoo! I am on fire! What's next?
Maybe there is such a thing as too much studying.
As you know, speed spells like Accelero are not easy. But if done correctly, they can allow you to be much more efficient with your day.
Way to go, Starlight!
[laughing] I'm not finished. I've discovered a very old spell, Similo Duplexis, when combined with Accelero in just the right way... [doubled up] ...you can literally be in two places at once! [normal] [sighs] Now I'm finished.
I have to admit, your skills with magic really are nothing short of amazing. I'm very impressed.
[laughing] I've always been something of a natural.
However, it doesn't look like you've tackled any friendship lessons since you met Trixie.
Are you sure? I could've sworn there were a couple in there somewhere...
I'm sure.
I see... Well, I'm really quite busy this week. So many commitments. I'll try and find some time in my—
No time like the present! Spike and I are headed to Canterlot. Princess Celestia wanted me to give her students a quick overview on the history of enchanted objects in Equestria. We'll be back after the presentation, which should be...
Twenty moons from now?
Tonight. It's a quick presentation.
[to himself] Sure, keep telling yourself that...
You can tackle a friendship lesson today, and we can review your progress when I get back later this evening.
[nervously] Of course! No problem! Friendship lesson... On it...
Great! Can't wait. Now, Spike, help me color-code these cards according to time, place, and object.
Huh? Huh! [humming and muttering to self] Oh, yeah. Mm-hmm.
Hey! Twilight and I are about to head to Canterlot. Just checking to see if you need anything before we left.
Nope, not at all! I'm good here. Oh, not good – great! Not a problem in the world! Heh.
[disbelieving] Uh-huh. So... what are you doing, exactly?
I... was... just trying to decide which friendship lesson I was going to tackle while you two were in Canterlot. Bap-ba-du... Oh, yep, right here, where I just left them a second ago.
[blows] [reading] "Bake a cake with Pinkie Pie," "scrapbook with Applejack," "sew with Rarity..."
"Help an animal with Fluttershy," "chillax with Rainbow Dash?" What is chillaxing?
No idea.
You know, uh, if you're nervous about your friendship lessons, it's totally okay to say so.
Nervous, me? [fake laughter] Oh, Spike, you really are hilarious, ha-ha. You think I'm nervous that I'm gonna fail something as simple as baking a cake?
Well, if you were, it'd be—
Silly! Twilight just said how impressed she was that I combined a speed spell and a duplication spell. That was a challenge. These? Pfft, hah! I could combine all five of these at the same time without breaking a sweat.
I think maybe you're missing—
An opportunity to really impress Twilight? [gasps] Great idea, Spike! I'm gonna get right on that! Good talk.
And I thought Twilight was the master of the freak-out.
So, with your help, I figure these should be done in no time.
Are you sure this is what Twilight would want? Seems like you might want to take your time with each of these.
But by working as a team, we can get them done faster. And isn't teamwork a key factor in friendship?
I... guess.
Super! Pinkie Pie, since we're baking, you will be in the kitchen.
Rarity, Applejack, you two can set up in the library.
Oh, I don't know that a dusty old library has the proper lighting. Perhaps we can stay out here in the foyer.
I thought that Fluttershy and I could work with the animals right here in the foyer.
Oh, um, whatever you think is best.
Great. Now, Rainbow Dash—
It might depend on the animal. For instance, this poor little eagle with a sprained wing might be better off up in one of the towers.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, sure.
And these adorable little chipmunks might prefer a nook somewhere. Maybe if you spend some time getting to know—
In a minute, Fluttershy.
Uh, I don't know if we can chillax properly in the castle. We need very specific conditions for optimal chillaxing.
Oh, I just assumed chillaxing could happen anywhere.
Heh. Shows what you know about chillaxing. Let me do some location scouting.
Okay... It seemed more efficient to start with the scrapbooking, so we can just get it out of the—
Ooh, ooh, ooh-ooh-ooh! Can we start with me? We're gonna need time for the cake to bake! After all... It's a piece of cake to bake a pretty cake—
Uh, we're on a schedule, no time for a song. We can start with baking, then—
But we can't design dresses after you've been baking with Pinkie. [hushed] She can be a bit messy.
Mmm!
Fine. We can start with the dresses, and then—
While y'all figure that out, I'm gonna start layin' out the pictures for scrapbookin'. We got a whole lot of time to cover.
How much is a whole lot?
We've got at least eighty moons worth of memories to go through.
Eighty moons?!
Ugh. There is nowhere to chillax in this castle! We're gonna have to set up somewhere else.
Could you all excuse me for... one... second?
Wow. That pony really needs to chillax.
[hyperventilating] Okay, Starlight. You've got this. A handful of friendship lessons is nothing compared to the spells you've mastered. [nervous laugh] Maybe if I cast a little spell to help things along... Something simple and safe. Fiducia Compelus... That's not bad. They would barely notice it, but... is it enough? Oh... Maybe Cogeria so they're more... open to suggestion. Oh, or maybe Cogeria combined with Fiducia Compelus! Yes, that could work nicely! Oh, with a hint of Persuadere to be sure it sticks.
Everypony'll probably thank me for getting it all done so quickly. And Twilight will be thrilled I've completed so many lessons. Everypony wins!
Congratulations, Starlight. You're a genius. [gasps] Maybe the congratulations were a little premature...
Cogeria... Persuadere... Fiducia... Hmm. Ah! Of course! Fiducia Compelus needs a trigger. [amplified] Ponies! Hear my voice and listen!
Pinkie, kitchen. Rarity, Applejack, library. Fluttershy, stay here. Rainbow Dash, find somewhere inside the castle and set up a place where we can chillax.
Let's get to work, Pinkie!
[mechanically] Okie-dokie! What would you like to do first?
Uh, what are we supposed to do first?
[mechanically] Whatever you want to do first, Starlight Glimmer.
[reading] In a medium-size mixing bowl, beat together eggs, sugar, and two teaspoons of vanilla... [beat] mix in flour... [beat] [quickly] add baking soda, salt and cinnamon! Hmm. I think you can take it from here.
[mechanically] Take what from where?
The baking. Just keep following the instructions in the book until I get back.
[mechanically] Abso-tively! Instruction following starting... now!
Baking a cake – check! Now on to sewing!
What did you have in mind, Rarity?
[mechanically] Whatever you want me to have in my mind, Starlight Glimmer.
Can you make a dress exactly like that one?
[mechanically] Just like this one?
Just like it.
[mechanically] Absolutely. It will look perfectly divine.
That's a whole lot of photos. How do you usually organize them?
[mechanically] However you want me to organize them, Starlight.
Okay. Tell me about this one.
[mechanically] Sweet Apple Acres, twenty moons ago. Granny Smith was lookin' for her favorite pie tin. She looked in the kitchen, but it wasn't there. She looked in the barn, but it wasn't there.
Ugh. I don't need every little detail. Heh. Just sum up the story in one sentence.
[mechanically] Huh. Turns out Granny Smith didn't know how to make a pig do the backstroke.
Uh-huh... Why don't you keep putting these photos in chronological order, and when I come back, you can give me more... highlights?
[mechanically] Sure thing, Starlight Glimmer.
Fluttershy, where are all the animals?
[mechanically] They ran away.
And why didn't you stop them?
[mechanically] Because you didn't ask me to.
Obviously I wanted you to... Never mind. Can you please round up all the animals in the castle and bring them back here to the foyer?
[mechanically] All the animals. Got it.
Did you find a place to chillax, Rainbow Dash?
[mechanically] Sure thing, Starlight Glimmer!
Great. Let me know when it's ready.
[mechanically] Yes, Starlight Glimmer.
[mechanically] Granny Smith knew she was gonna need a bigger boat, so Goldie Delicious says, "If you can't say anythin' nice about anypony, come sit by me!" Big Mac knew if he just covered himself in mud, the creature wouldn't be able to see him!
[mechanically] Starlight Glimmer. I have finished the dress. Isn't it gorgeous?
What is that?
[mechanically] You wanted me to make a dress exactly like the one in the book.
[sighs] Go make a real dress out of fabric, exactly like the one in the book.
[mechanically] Ah. I see. Yes, of course, Starlight Glimmer.
Rarity! Make it bigger than the one in the book.
[mechanically] Of course, darling. Bigger it is.
[mechanically] She was just a pony standin' in front of another pony askin' him to love her.
Pinkie, what are you doing?!
[mechanically] Following all of the instructions in the cookbook in order, Starlight Glimmer!
I meant just the one cake! I was only gone a few minutes! How in Equestria did you get all of this done so fast?
Think the baking lesson is done.
Oh, what now?
[mechanically] They can take our farm, but they can't take our freedom!
What's going on?!
[mechanically] I gathered all of the animals like you asked, Starlight Glimmer.
[mechanically] Oh, yes, this will do nicely.
[mechanically] A much bigger dress!
[mechanically, muffled] It was the best of apples, it was the worst of apples...
[exhales] I can handle this. It's just magic, and I know magic. What's that?!
What did you say?
[mechanically] The cakes are burning. You left the ovens on.
We need water!
[mechanically] Yes, Starlight Glimmer.
Storm clouds?!
[mechanically] Big Mac told me, "With a whole lot of power comes a heck of a lot of responsibility."
[groans] This can't get any worse!
What is going on?!
I had no idea we had spiders in the castle! I'm never sleeping again!
Maybe if I had reversed the Fiducia Compelus and Cogeria... Or maybe I added too much Persuadere... What?
You're really missing the point here.
[sighs] I finally untangled that mess of a spell and got everypony home. It was really powerful stuff. They're gonna feel that in the morning. Now please try to explain to me how in the name of Celestia things got this out of control.
Well, it was the first time I cast that particular spell, and I didn't fully think it through. I-I bet if I had reversed—
I think you might be missing the point here.
Told ya.
What made you think that casting a spell on your friends to do your bidding was even remotely a good idea?
Well, when you put it that way, it sounds really bad.
That's because it is really bad!
Starlight, I'm not mad at you, but I am disappointed. You've been doing so well. I just don't understand how a friendship lesson turned into all of this.
Ugh, fine! I've been avoiding the friendship lessons on purpose.
Why?
I can cast complex spells, but baking a cake with Pinkie Pie freaks me out! And yes, I know how ridiculous that sounds. That's why I didn't say anything. I thought if I just kept wowing you with my magical abilities, you might just... not... notice?
Baking a cake freaks you out?
Yes! Baking a cake, sewing – all of it! What if I was bad at it? I didn't want to be a disappointment to anypony, and I ended up being a disappointment to everypony.
Starlight, do you think anypony cares if you can bake a cake?
But the lesson—
Was to get to know Pinkie Pie better by doing something she loves. It was a friendship lesson, not a baking lesson.
Oh. You know, I think I might have missed the point here.
Told ya.
So now what?
Now it's time for a pretty advanced friendship lesson. It's called apologizing.
[groaning] I don't know what kind of whammy Starlight put on us, but I feel like I got shoved through the Super Speedy Cider Squeezy 6000.
Ugh, tell me about it.
[hushed] If everypony could speak in a whisper for the next few days, that would be delightful. My head is thumping...!
[tired] I was up all night calming the animals down.
[hushed] Fluttershy, please! Not so loud...
Starlight's spell made me burn perfectly good cake! I never burn cake!
Yeah, about that... Things got a little out of hand last night.
Well, ain't that the understatement of the day.
Hmph! Tell it to the cake, sister!
[hushed] Can we all please argue at a lower volume?
I really messed up. I cast the spell because I was nervous about working with you on the friendship lessons.
Well, here's a friendship lesson for ya — don't cast spells on your friends!
Believe me, I know. What I did was wrong, a-and I can't take it back. You're right to be upset, and I hope one day I can make it up to you. But all I can say is... I'm sorry. Now, if you'll excuse me, I've gotta go clean the castle covered in wet cake batter and spiders.
That was a pretty good apology.
Seems like she feels pretty bad.
Hey, Starlight! Most of the Apple family photos are still layin' around in the wreckage. I think I'll come along and hunt 'em down.
Oh, and I feel awful for disturbing all of those cute little spiders and bats. I should check on them.
Ah, yes, and I left some lovely fabric out. I should come and move it to that nice quiet library.
Uh, I'll come and get those storm clouds out of the bathroom.
Fine! Somepony has to bake a cake to honor all the poor cakes that sacrificed their batter in last night's tragedy!
It seems your apology went well.
[sighs] I'm just lucky to have such understanding friends, but it's probably going to be a while before I try to tackle those friendship lessons again.
What do you mean? You've been doing them all day.
What are you talking about? I've been cleaning up the mess I made by totally failing at friendship.
Really? But didn't I see you sewing with Rarity?
Yes, but—
And you and Applejack did a great job collecting those photos and putting them in the book. Helping animals with Fluttershy, baking with Pinkie Pie – those sound like your assignments to me. In fact, I think there's just one that you're missing.
Sun – check. Chairs – check. And thanks to a simple Catadupa Levitata spell, we've got water. Is that everything we need to chillax?
Nope.
No? What did I miss?
Quiet.
Ah! Right.
Hey! She completes the lesson when I say she completes it. So less learning and more chillaxing!
So... How long do we sit quietly?
Sorry, Spike. It's just Pinkie Pie, Rarity, and Applejack are getting back from their Seaward Shoals boat trip, and I can't wait to hear all about it! It's such a shame Rainbow Dash and Fluttershy had to miss it for their Cloudsdale flight school reunion. Maybe the rest of us not going was for the best anyway. I know the three of them were really looking forward to getting out of their element.
Getting out of their element?
I think they all just wanted to try something new.
Huh. I guess a boat trip qualifies as that.
My only worry is that they'll be so excited, they'll talk over each other, and I'll miss some of the details! Just to be safe, I may need you to take notes.
Uh... right.
So how was the trip?
Well, at least you don't have to worry about them talking over each other.
I don't know what happened on that boat trip. But once Rarity, Applejack, and Pinkie Pie have some tea and talk it out, I'm sure everypony will feel better.
Come on in, everypony! Gummy, Opalescence, and Winona? This is a surprise!
Aren't Pinkie Pie, Rarity, and Applejack with you?
[reading] "Sorry, darling, but I must decline the invitation to your soiree. While I'm sure it will be positively resplendent, there are certain ponies I'd rather not associate with at the moment. Rarity."
Rarity's not coming? Awww. So I polished my scales for nothing.
[reading] "Sorry I can't make it, but I'm still a mite upset about everything that happened on the boat. Applejack." "Sorry I can't make the tea party today, but there's a small problem with the guest list. Plus, I'm right in the middle of a very important cupcake. Pinkie." Come on, Spike! Since our friends won't come here and tell us what happened, we'll just have to go to them!
I'm sorry, but my mane wasn't made to support marine life! Ruined, completely ruined.
I don't know, Rarity. Maybe you could—
Throw it away? Yes, I agree. Just another innocent casualty of that disastrous boat trip.
About that. Spike and I were wondering what happened out there.
If it's too difficult to talk about, we completely understand.
Well, since you dragged it out of me... It all started at the docks. I knew Applejack and Pinkie Pie wanted to get out of their element, so I thought I would surprise them with an elegant cruise.
[narrating] I had brought a small bag with just a few key essentials. [in-world] All right, ponies! Prepare yourselves for luxury on the high seas!
That sounds... fun?
[sea dog accent] The sea air carries a portent for trouble this day. 'Tis a treacherous and perilous journey that lies ahead of us! We sail to adventure... or our very doom.
I... have no idea what you just said, but your wardrobe is delightfully seaworthy.
[narrating] Despite Applejack's colorful seafarer attitude, I was still determined to get my friends out of their element by providing them with all the refinements of a luxury cruise. I made sure to bring the most delectable nibbles for them to enjoy.
Ooh, I brought food too!
Let's see, I've got cotton candy, taffy, circus peanuts, and lots of other super-yummy stuff!
Oh, Pinkie Pie, that all looks positively delectable. But you simply must try one of these cucumber sandwiches. Dig in!
Hmmm. Hmmm. Hmm. Hmm. Hmm. Hmm. Hmm.
[sea dog accent] Arrr! Get those off me ship!
Oh! I'm so sorry! I had no idea you had such distaste for cucumbers!
[sea dog accent] Yar-har-har-har, hardy-har-har-har!
Hmm... That doesn't sound like Applejack.
Huh.
Well, hold on, because it gets even worse. Pinkie tried to lighten the mood with some fun maritime games.
It's piñata o'clock! Wanna give it a whack, Rarity?
Oh, darling, of course!
[laughs in sea dog accent] I'll be chartin' a course to the very heart of that maelstrom!
Ahem. Er, Applejack? Just a thought, but maybe we should steer the ship toward calmer waters.
[sea dog accent] This be the only way to Plunder Cove!
Perhaps if I took a quick look-see at that map of yours, I could find us a more cruise-friendly path—
[sea dog accent] Yah! There'll be no mutiny aboard me ship!
Look at me! I'm the captain too!
[narrating] Clearly, Pinkie Pie had caught Applejack's sea madness.
Then what happened?!
So Applejack got some sort of sea madness and caused the boat to capsize?
After all the effort I put in to provide her and Pinkie with the exact luxury cruise they needed to get out of their elements, that is how Applejack thanked me!
So you were stuck out in the middle of the ocean? How in Equestria did you get back?
[sighs] Spike, darling, you'll have to forgive me. I am far too emotionally drained to discuss the matter any further!
Rarity, I don't suppose there's any chance you might be... uh, exaggerating things? Just a little?
Well! I can assure you that that is exactly what happened! But if you don't believe me, you can ask Pinkie Pie. I'm quite certain her story will be the same.
So that's what Rarity said happened on the boat, huh?
We thought there was a chance she might have... [clears throat] embellished the story just a tad. So we wanted to hear about what happened from you! Did Applejack really capsize the boat?
Of course not! Pfft, that's just silly! There's no way Applejack could've sank the boat!
I knew it!
That's a relief.
Because Rarity did!
What?!
It all started on the docks. I knew Rarity and Applejack wanted to get out of their element, so I figured I'd throw them the funnest, silliest boat party ever! But I guess Rarity had other ideas.
[narrating] I thought I overpacked until I saw Rarity and her team of porter-ponies!
Prepare yourselves for a luxury cruise! A day of opulence, decadence, and extravagance!
[deadpan] That sounds fun.
Ahoy, mateys! Batten down the hatches, y'all, 'cause this here's gonna be a boat ride of adventure!
Eh, I can live with that.
Huh. They just keep coming.
[narrating] Now, you can't throw a silly boat party without snacks. So I made sure to pack the funnest party food I could find! [in-world] Rarity, would you care for some cotton candy? It's freshly spun!
Oh, Pinkie Pie, those all look simply... well, simple. But they're obviously unfit for a luxury cruise. Now, my cucumber sandwiches, on the other hoof... Try one, then you'll understand.
Ooh, are those chocolate chip?
Sorry! Cucumber sandwiches are so ten seconds ago.
Wait, wait, wait. That doesn't sound like Rarity.
Just wait until you hear how much more unlike her she sounds!
I thought I'd lighten the mood with some super-fun party boat games. But Rarity was a real wet blanket.
It's piñata time! Ooh! Wanna give it a whack, Rarity?
[exaggerated posh laugh] ...Oh. You were serious. Well, that's adorable.
I'll give it a go!
That's the spirit! Let's get this boat party started!
Whoooooa! Heh-heh! Whoa, doggie!
Tug of war? Now we're talking! Whoever wins gets to be captain!
Or... one of us should just be captain now?
Oh, don't worry, dear. Luxury cruises never sink.
What?!
And that's why the boat sinking was all Rarity's fault.
That seems... odd. I mean, we trust you, of course. But it's all so... extraordinary?
Oh, it's "extraordinary", all right. But that's exactly what happened! In fact, the only thing I might've gotten wrong was that there were even more porter ponies! But just to be safe, you should talk to Applejack. She'll know exactly how many porter ponies there were!
Okay, but if the boat sank, how did you all get rescued?
Oh, that's easy. We just— [sniffs] My muffins!
[fed up] That's it. We've gotta go talk to Applejack.
Good idea. She'll straighten this out.
I just really, really wanna know how they made it back! But yeah, that'd be great too.
Hold on a tick. Pinkie Pie says it's Rarity's fault, and Rarity says I sank the boat? Well, that's plumb crazy! If you two really wanna know what happened, I'll tell you. Y'all know how Pinkie Pie and Rarity wanted to get out of their "element"? Well, I bought a treasure map to give 'em a rip-roarin' seafarin' adventure! But they had other ideas.
La-la-la! Prepare yourselves for the most luxurious boat outing that ever outed a boat!
And more fun than you can shake a stick at! [squee] Because I brought a stick!
Alright, mateys, but just y'all wait 'til you see the high seas adventure I've got planned!
[narrating] Unfortunately, they seemed less interested in a treasure huntin' adventure and more interested in snacks.
Oh, darling, that food isn't fit for a pony of proper breeding, darling, and refinement, darling! Now my cucumber sandwiches, on the other hoof...
Bet you I can fit them all in my mouth! Ahh...
Pinkie, darling, please!
U-uh, Rarity, I—
Well, I never! Hum-ph!
Me neither! Hum-ph!
Do you want to say it, or should I?
I'll go. That sure doesn't sound like Rarity or Pinkie Pie!
Oh, it gets a sight worse than that!
It's P.W.T. – Piñata Whacking Time!
Oh, darling, whacking is a base pastime for common ponies. Doesn't interest me in the least.
Meh. Hee-hee!
Huh?
Whoooooa!
Looks like we need to change course!
Ooh! Why, this will make a perfect tablecloth for my cheeseboard!
Maybe so, but it's also the only way to find Plunder Cove!
[narrating] And Pinkie Pie was just about as helpful as a weasel in a hen house.
Captain Pinkie Pie reporting for map duty!
Hold on, everypony!
Wait, so it was Rarity and Pinkie's fault?
Yup! And maybe if they ever apologized, I'll consider talkin' to them again.
If they all blame each other, I don't know how we're gonna get them to talk again.
Neither do I, Spike. Neither do I.
There's gotta be some way to fix this. If Applejack, Pinkie Pie, and Rarity keep not talking to each other, they could forget what good friends they really are!
I just don't get it! All of their stories are so different! [sigh] We're never gonna figure out what really happened.
Their stories were different, but they also had a lot in common.
I guess... They were all on a ship that sank, and... that's about it.
Not quite.
A-ha! Not only do I think I know how the boat sank, I have a pretty good idea how to get Rarity, Applejack and Pinkie Pie back together!
I hope this plan of yours works.
[panting] Winona brought me your note about a friendship emergency! H-How can I help?
[panting] Opalescence delivered your message, Twilight! What's the emergency?
It's a good thing it was time for Gummy's bath, or I might not have seen your note about the emergency, Twilight!
Applejack, Pinkie Pie, What's she doing here?!
Sorry, but I just didn't know how else to get the three of you here together, and there really is a friendship emergency! Yours!
Oh, there's no emergency! I'm just waitin' for an apology.
An apology?!
What?! Why would you want me to apologize when it was Rarity's fault?!
What are you talking about? Applejack clearly caused the boat to sink! She stranded us in the middle of the ocean!
[frustrated scream] Will somepony please tell me how you made it back?!
Well... Maybe it wasn't the middle of the ocean...
Ugh.
Even so, I don't appreciate bein' hornswoggled into comin' back here.
On that, at least, we agree.
Yeah!
I know you each have a different perspective on how the boat capsized and blame each other, but if you come on the boat with me I'll show you what really happened.
Well, not that I have any doubts, but it will feel good for everypony to see exactly whose fault it was.
I think we all know which pony's about to be proven right.
We sure do.
Like I said, I sure hope this works.
[nervous laugh] [hushed] Whatever you're looking for, I hope you find it soon!
Don't worry, Spike. I've got it all under control. [to the others] While all of your stories seem very different, they all had something in common – cucumber sandwiches.
What in the hay does that have to do with anythin'?
And why would you waste a perfectly good hors d'oeuvre?
You also mentioned the bubbling water.
And the swell. Cucumber just happens to be the favorite food of the tri-horned bunyip, and bubbles followed by a swell is what happens when they swim up to the shallows from deep water.
So... we attracted a tri-horned whatchamacallit?
With cucumber sandwiches?
Sounds like a stretch.
Hello, bunyip, sir!
So that's a...
A tri-horned bunyip! Who's very sorry he accidentally knocked over your boat. Right?
Wait, the storm had nothing to do with the capsizing?
Nope!
All right. Even if our friend the bunyip is responsible for sinking the boat, it still doesn't excuse a certain pony's behavior!
Me?! How about you and Pinkie Pie?
Pfft– What? Who? Me? No–
I think I can explain that too. Each of you spent so much time trying to come up with the perfect way to get the others out of their element, that you didn't notice your friends were doing the same thing!
Wait a minute. You brought all those games and things for us?
Of course! I figured the boat trip was the perfect time to do things that were silly and fun!
And I was just trying to give the two of you the elegant cruise I thought you deserved.
And I just wanted to give you two a high seas adventure, since that'd be somethin' new and different for y'all.
Applejack, Pinkie Pie, Ohhhh.
That is so sweet. You must have gone through so much trouble.
Well, not half as much trouble as you did makin' all that fancy food, and bringin' all those games!
I guess this just teaches us that even long time friends need to work at communication.
Well, there's something I'd like to communicate to you all right now! You girls are the best friends a pony could ever have!
Oh, let's never fight again!
You got it!
[simultaneously] Agreed!
All right, you big softie! Bring it in!
Come on, bunyip, sir! You got it!
One thing's for sure, Spike. There's nothing like a luxurious adventure boat party to get you out of your element.
You said it!
Well, that's the last of it, Filthy Rich.
Just Rich, please. And on behalf of Rich's Barnyard Bargains, thanks for another season's shipment of zap apple jam.
Our pleasure. See ya next time.
Uh, Apple Bloom, did you pack up the cider into the same crates as the zap apple jam?
Sure did! Now that I'm gettin' older, I wanna prove I can handle more responsibility on the farm.
But the crates aren't marked. You kept track of what went into which crate, right?
Oh. Um... y-yep. I totally kept track of everything.
Good. Because we wouldn't want Filthy Rich to get a shipment of cider when he's supposed to get zap apple jam. You know how Granny feels about sellin' cider anywhere but on the farm. Are you sure he got the right crates?
[huffs] Sure I'm sure! Now why don't you and Big Mac head on out to the house and let me finish up here?
If you gave Rich the zap apple jam, then what's this here?
Um... extra?
Nnnope.
Granny knows I-I wasn't tryin' to make off with a shipment of cider, right? Because I would never do that.
Don't worry. We know exactly whose fault it was.
Now why in tarnation would you lie to me, Apple Bloom?
I was kinda hopin' I could fix it before anypony found out.
Tellin' lies won't fix anythin'. Trust me. I know.
What could you possibly know about it? You've never told a lie in your whole life!
What's so funny?
Oh-ho, sugarcube. [laughing] Your big sister lied so much when she was a filly, the whole family ended up in the hospital.
What?!
[laughing] Eeyup!
[groans] You might as well tell her the whole story. Might even do her some good.
When Applejack and Big Mac were just a wee bit older than you are now, they both kept a-squabblin' over who would run the farm better.
All I'm sayin' is that you may have plenty of brawn, but I'm the one with the ideas on how to run things better around here!
[laughs] Applejack, Applejack, Applejack, ideas are all well and good, but you can't plow a field with 'em. I don't know how many times I've told you that.
Too many!
You two horned toads better stop jabberin' and get to workin'! Yeah, they'd better. I need you to go to town. The apple blight's been awful, and if we don't get more spray, cider season'll be shorter than a dwarf crabapple tree!
It's like I was just tellin' Cousin Braeburn last week. Now there's a pony who knows how to put his back into a problem...
[growls] Oh, hey there, Filthy Rich!
Just Rich, please. And I'd you to meet my fiancée, Spoiled Milk. Honey, this is Applejack and Big Mac, the two hardest workin' ponies at Sweet Apple Acres.
You work on a farm? How... quaint.
[chuckles] Oh, now, dear, be nice. Sweet Apple Acres makes zap apple jam. It's one of Dad's best-sellers.
You mean one of your best-sellers. [to AJ and Big Mac] My amazing husband-to-be is running the Rich family business now. Did you know that? Well, now you do.
[chuckles] Don't mind Spoiled Milk. She's just proud of me. Uh, but she's right. I'm in charge of the store now, and I'm just burstin' with ideas I wanna try!
Like what?
Well, how 'bout this? Cider season's around the corner. Why not let me sell it for ya?
That is an interesting idea.
Well, maybe it's interestin', an' maybe it ain't. But it's definitely not a new idea. Granny Smith told us your grandpa, Stinkin' Rich, used to ask her every year if he could sell our cider in your store, and Granny told him every year about the tradition of everypony in Ponyville linin' up out at Sweet Apple Acres.
So start a new tradition. Some day, one o' y'all will take over the farm just like I've taken over the store. I'm guessin' it'll the one with the best ideas.
Well, now, as I've said many a time before, ideas are all well an' good, but you can't plow a field—
Ya know what? How 'bout we give you three barrels of cider early, and if it sells well, we'll make a deal for the rest?
Oh, hey, now! Perfect! [to Spoiled Milk] Come on, honey. I've gotta get everything ready.
Hoo-wee! I tell ya, if the future means me runnin' Sweet Apple Acres and you bein' quiet, I can't wait!
I just can't believe you'd make a deal with Filthy Rich without even talkin' to Granny!
Aw, Granny will love the idea. And then she'll decide that I'm the one who should take over the farm. You'll see.
See what?
Applejack here had another one of her "big ideas", and I think we all know my position on ideas. You can't—
"Can't plow a field with 'em."
Ee... right.
Big idea, hmmm?
Actually, more of an opportunity. Y'see, we ran into Filthy Rich in town. Did ya know he's runnin' the family store now?
And what does this here "opportunity" mean for Sweet Apple Acres?
Well, uh, since cider season is almost here, he—or, I-I mean, I—thought it'd be a good idea to give him a few barrels of cider to sell at the store before the season starts.
Oh, is that all? Absolutely not!
[scoffs] But, Granny, why can't we sell a few barrels o' cider early to Filthy Rich? And how is it any different than when you gave zap apple jam to Filthy's grandpappy to sell?
Your cider and your jam ain't the same thing! Zap apple jam jars preserve the flavor for moons, but cider starts to spoil the second it comes out the press. That is why every cider season, all of Ponyville lines up at Sweet Apple Acres. And first come is first served! Hmph!
I get what you're sayin', Granny. But couldn't you make an exception just this once? I sort of promised.
Mm, meh-enh. Besides, cider-makin' is iffy business. And we're probably not gonna have a lot this year anyway, what with all the blight. I am sorry, Applejack, but you's just gonna have to un-promise.
[sighs] Oh.
I hate to say I told you so, Applejack, but—
You an' I both know you don't hate to say anythin'.
Well, I've always thought that the most important thing a pony can do is say exactly what's on his mind to anypony who'll listen, so everypony everywhere always knows everythin' they're thinkin', and—
And you don't ever have to listen to anypony else.
What?
Exactly.
Well, if it ain't my new business partner!
Uh, about the cider, Rich...
Take a look at what I did last night after we made our deal!
Whoo! Ha! Pretty great, huh?
The thing is, I-I don't think I can get you any.
What? Well, I did all this work on your say-so! We shook hooves and everything!
Well, you see, at Sweet Apple Acres, we've always been about quality, and while your basic jam jar'll keep—
Plus it's been a tough harvest this year, what with all the blight.
Gah! Sounds to me like you're tryin' to make excuses! Whenever Granddad dealt with Granny Smith, she kept her word! If you can't do that, then maybe our families should stop doin' business together! Altogether!
Now, now, the thing is, Rich, it ain't really up to us. Y'see, Granny's—
Uh, sick!
Wait, Granny's sick? I-I had no idea.
Ee... yeah. Nopony did.
Uh, what Big Mac means is, uh, we've been tryin' to keep it quiet. Don't want people to make rash decisions about doin' business with Sweet Apple Acres just because we're, uh, a little short-hooved at the moment.
Oh, my! O-Of course, of course! I am so sorry. Please let me know if there's anything I can do.
Much appreciated. But right now, we-we only ask for your understandin' during this difficult time.
Mm-hmm.
You were supposed to tell Rich the simple truth! But instead, you made things worse with a giant lie!
W-W-What was I supposed to do? You heard Rich. If I told him the truth, he was gonna stop doin' business with us altogether.
Yeah, but that's only because I... I forgot to ask if we had any oat crumbles for this delicious-lookin' salad, Granny.
[hushed] That was only because you made promises you couldn't keep! But there's gotta be a better way out of this mess than by makin' up some story about Granny bein' sick!
[hushed] Well, it worked, didn't it?
Sorry to drop by unannounced. We just wanted to come by to wish Granny a speedy recovery.
[sarcastic] Look, sis. Our good friend, Mr. Rich and his fiancée... are here. Oh, and they brought flowers! For Granny! On account o' she's sick! Like you said. Ain't that sweet?
Uh, excuse me one second!
Aah!
Golly, what in tarnation?
Oh, I'm sorry, Granny. I-I didn't see ya there.
Ya came blastin' in so fast, t'weren't possible to see nothin'!
Can you go out to the barn? I, uh, I think I might've left a blight sprayer in the orchard.
Are you outta yer apple-pickin' mind?! It's suppertime, girl!
I know, but, uh, if we forgot a sprayer, I'd wanna get it before dark. You go start countin', a—and I'll tell Big Mac we'll be right back, okay?
...so from that moment on, I took to referrin' to myself as Big or Large or...
Oh, Applejack! Your brother was just explainin' why he always wears his yoke.
Even though we asked him how your grandmare is doing!
Oh, well, you know how Big Mac can get to... to talkin', especially when he's upset. And right now, he's just as worried about Granny Smith as I am.
Oh, dear. Is she doin' that bad?
Well, one thing's for sure, she... she shouldn't be seein' anypony right now. In fact, I'm gettin' more upset just thinkin' about it. Excuse me.
D'oh! What in the frilly fumidil has gotten into you?!
Sorry, Granny. I just decided if I helped you, it would go faster.
Well, you're too late. All the sprayers are here.
Oh, good. Uh, say, Granny, when did you first fight the apple blight again?
It was my second year here in Ponyville. Uh, they was before I had the rick on the one knee.
...and others say that's how the trees got to growin' so tall. But to me, it's just how I got my cutie mark!
But we asked when we could come back to see Granny.
Uh, Big Mac didn't wanna be rude, but you just can't see Granny right now, because she's... got apple blight!
[gasps] I thought only trees got the blight!
Yeah, that's usually the case. [beat] The doctors think it's from workin' in the orchards for so many years. [beat] Y'see, we had to take Granny to Ponyville General. We just got back right before you showed up.
Oh, my. That is terrible!
Ew! It's not contagious, is it?
Um, I'm sure you'll be fine, but you should leave... [coughs] ...just in case.
You're right. We're gonna have to hurry if we wanna get there before visitin' hours are over.
That's right. Wait. Get where?
Why, the hospital, of course. I'm sure we'll see you there.
Tellin' Filthy Rich that Granny's in the hospital just made everythin' a hundred times worse! What are we supposed to do now?
I got it!
Dropped my second best teeth right in the pigpen, and that was the worst case of apple blight I have ever seen!
I'd love to hear more, Granny, but we gotta get to the hospital right away!
The hospital? Why? Who's sick?
You are, apparently.
What he means is you're needed at the hospital.
Heh. Whatever for?
It's the apple blight! It's startin' to infect ponies now! The doctors need an expert opinion, and nopony knows more about fightin' blight than Granny Smith!
Well, what in tarnation are we waitin' for? Let's go!
[gasps] You know, we're supposed to go in, uh, in the back! Uh, to avoid anypony in the waitin' room with the blight.
Oops! I almost forgot!
Hrk!
This is perfect! Now you don't have to worry about catchin' the blight.
[slightly muffled] If you say so, dearie.
Now you wait right here while I, uh... check on your presentation!
What in the rotten rhubarb is goin' on here?
[nervous laugh] Fancy meetin' you two here!
Well, we told you we were coming.
Well, I'm glad we found you, because I can't seem to find Granny's room or any nurses who've even heard about a pony with apple blight.
Uh, aren't you comin' with us?
Uh, I'll catch up! I gotta find Big Mac!
Okay, Granny, just wait here one second and we can go.
Where are you two going?
Big Mac can't come! He, uh, might be contagious!
Contagious?!
All right, climb up here and I'll cover you up. Then I'll bring Rich in, tell him you're Granny, but you're not allowed to take the sheets off. You moan a few times, he leaves, and this whole thing is over.
This is spinnin' way out of control, Applejack! Now I know you thought sellin' cider in Filthy's store was a good idea, but it ain't worth lyin' to him about Granny bein' sick and needin' to go to the hospital, or fibbin' to Granny about them wantin' her come here to talk about the blight, or—
Big McIntosh, please just listen to me for once! This ain't about my ideas. If Rich finds out about all the lies, he'll cut off ties with us and the farm'll go under! Now do you want that to happen, or do you wanna help?
Why can't you be Granny? You're her size, and this is all your fault in the first place.
I would, but if I let you do the talkin', you'd just ramble on and on until we all got caught!
Just lay down, keep still, and promise me you won't say anythin' for once in your life!
[unconvinced] Eeeeyup.
Granny! [squeaks] [hushed] Granny!
It's about time! What is goin' on around here?!
Uh, Granny, they need you to wait here! I'll come get ya!
[panting] There you are! We've been going in circles looking for Granny's room!
Well, you're in luck, 'cause it's-it's right over here, and this time I'll make sure you don't get lost.
What in the dadgum—?!
What now?
He– I mean, she was right here! Oh, no. We gotta go!
I-Is that Granny Smith?
Where are they takin' her?
You two, don't lose that gurney! [hushed] Granny, what are you doin'? You were supposed to stay there!
It was a supply closet!
Oh. Uh... Well, okay, come with me, but be quiet! You know, save your voice for the big presentation!
"Hippocratic Oath": I-I-I'm sorry, but you can't get any closer without a gown and mask.
But-but-but-but that's my brother on there!
"Hippocratic Oath": Don't worry. This is our best doctor. She'll have your brother back on his hooves in no time.
Now apple blight is a serious disease!
[splutters] Did she say... apple blight?
I think she said "gasket mites".
And once your trunk turns red like this, the only thing to do is prune the branches.
[gasps] Oh, no! Granny!
Did you say..."prune them branches"?
Well, sure! What else you gonna do once the blight gets this bad?
Everypony, just stop! This is all a big misunderstandin'! [pants] Actually... it's a big lie.
Big Mac?!
[gasps] Granny Smith?! What is goin' on here, Applejack?!
That is a darn good question.
[sighs] I'm not sure if I was worried that nopony was listenin' to my ideas or just nervous that I wouldn't be the one to end up runnin' the farm, but... I promised somethin' to Filthy Rich that I couldn't deliver, and I was too embarrassed to admit it.
So Granny was never sick?
And there ain't no apple blighted ponies?
Nnnope.
Those were all lies. A-And I thought if you found out, you'd stop doin' business with the farm. So I just kept tellin' more.
"Hippocratic Oath": So she's not a doctor?
Please don't make Granny and the farm suffer for what I did! This whole thing is my fault.
That's... not entirely true. Maybe if I paid more attention to what you had to say instead of talkin' all the time, none o' this would've happened in the first place. I just need to... talk less and listen more. Especially to you.
[sighs] Thanks, big brother. And whether it's me runnin' Sweet Apple Acres or you, I know it'll be in good hooves.
Well, that's nice, but I don't know what in blazes you two are talkin' about! I ain't goin' anywhere anytime soon! [blows raspberry] Runnin' the farm. Not after this display! Not likely! [to Filthy Rich] And don't you go gettin' any ideas about cuttin' ties with Sweet Apple Acres, or I'm goin' right to your grandpappy. Get me?
[stutters] Um, yes, ma'am.
Now, who here still wants to hear about the apple blight? Now, when I was a filly...
I can't believe you told all those lies!
It's not a story I'm proud of, but it taught me a lifelong lesson about bein' honest. I hope you learned somethin', too.
I sure did. I learned that nopony starts out perfect and sometimes you gotta make a few mistakes to figure out who you are.
Eeyup.
But I think the most important thing I learned is who really runs Sweet Apple Acres.
Applejack, Apple Bloom, Granny!
You're darn tootin'! Now everypony quit your lollygaggery and get back to work! Right after we have a glass of cider.
Spring training was awesome, but I can't wait to see my friends!
I'm gonna catch up on some Daring Do with Twilight, help Applejack make my favorite cider, and have a sleepover with Pinkie!
We get it. You have a fun week planned.
Meanwhile, I'm stuck here running trials week at the Academy.
But you love yelling and blowing your whistle.
Yeah. I do.
See you gals later!
Huh? Oh, the map!
Hey, Twilight! So where am I going? The Crystal Mountains? Vanhoover? Here? Please say here.
Well, the good news is we both got called by the map!
Awesome! [beat] Does that mean there's bad news?
No. Well, not exactly.
[groans] I was just there!
Ooh!
Ahem.
All right, newbies! Welcome to trials week for the Wonderbolt Academy! You'll be judged on your speed, strength, agility, and technique, culminating in a final evaluation. Will it be hard? Yes! Will you cry? Maybe. Will you fly so much your wings fall off? That has only happened once.
She's just exaggerating to make a point, right? I mean, wings can't really fall off... can they?
You think you've got what it takes to be an elite flyer?
Yes, ma'am.
Yes, ma'am!
Well, lemme tell you. You don't!
[sighs wistfully] I remember when she said that to me.
You don't think Rainbow Dash is the pony whose wings fell off, do you?
[blows whistle] Quit your whispering and give me five hundred laps! Go, go, go!
Um, I just wanted you to know, you two are my favorite ponies in all of Equestria.
Well, isn't that sweet? Now get going on those laps!
Welcome, Princess Twilight. [to Rainbow Dash] What are you doing back so soon?
Official friendship business.
Have you noticed anypony having a hard time with their friends?
Not really, but it's not my job to worry about their relationships. I'm here to make them elite flyers.
[sighs] Adorable. They're so full of hope and competition. Eh, their technique could use some work, though.
You should tell them. I'm sure they'd appreciate any notes from you.
Nah. I wouldn't want to mess with their confidence.
But they'll never get better if they don't know what to work on.
Sloppy wing placement, crooked lines... I'm gonna have to drill them on basic technique in the classroom portion.
Classroom portion?
Yeah, it's everypony's least favorite part of trial week, but it has to be done.
Maybe we can help!
We can?
Absolutely! Between your flying skills and my teaching expertise, they could learn a lot! Plus, once they get to know us, they'll be more comfortable coming to us with their friendship problems!
Count us in!
You have your work cut out for you.
Thank goodness I had time to whip up a few charts on flight patterns and wing symmetry! It's fresh in my mind from when I learned to fly! This is so exciting!
I'm pretty sure their thirst for knowledge will keep them bright-eyed and bushy-tailed.
[chuckles] Good one, Twilight.
Wake up, newbies! Class is in session!
Hello, students! I'm Twilight Sparkle, and this is Rainbow Dash.
But you can call us "T-Sparks" and "The Dashinator"!
[laughs nervously] Just kidding.
And we're here to go over basic flying technique.
Who said that?!
Me. I mean, we're here because we're amazingly awesome crazy-good flyers. We're way past basics.
What's your name?
Sky Stinger. You've, uh, never heard of me?
He set the record for the fastest vertical acceleration rate! Five hundred feet in two seconds!
[unimpressed] Huh. That's pretty impressive.
It's amazing.
[clears throat] It is, and we can talk personal records after class, Ms...?
Vapor Trail. She's my wingpony. I never fly without her.
But you'll have to in the solo trials.
There are... [gulps] ...solo trials?
Yup. It's a part of your final evaluation.
[scoffs] We'll ace that test with our wings tied behind our flanks. My picture will go right up there, next to yours.
That's a mighty big claim, considering everypony here is an amazingly awesome crazy-good flyer.
I know.
[clears throat] Okay! Let's get back on track. Now, who can tell me the best wing angle to achieve minimal air resistance?
[quickly] Wake up newbies! Class is in session!
Well, there were a few hiccups, but overall, that went pretty well.
[cricks neck, yawns] Yeah, nopony fell asleep. What? I'm not a student!
Hey, Teach!
Me or Twilight? Probably Twilight.
Um, uh, both. About the solo test. I'm actually kinda worried about it.
Aw, that's all right. We all have moments where we doubt ourselves.
No, no. I've absolutely zero doubts about myself. I'm a strong flyer. Like, really, really, really strong. This isn't about me. I'm worried for Vapor.
Oh, well, that is very... kind of you?
Tell you what. It's almost time for your freestyle training. Why don't you grab her and show us what you got?
Yes! Prepare to be impressed!
By me.
Like I said, Vapor still needs work.
Well, he may be full of himself, but I have to admit, Sky is an excellent flyer. He must have shot up two hundred feet!
But did you see Vapor Trail? Her wing was under his. I think she gave him a boost.
I guess I didn't even notice Vapor. I was too busy watching Sky.
[gasps] I think you're right! Vapor just created a gust of wind that caught Sky's wing at a forty-five degree angle, propelling him into a flipping loop! [beat] Somepony paid attention in class!
Sky obviously has no idea he's not actually amazingly awesome.
And Vapor's so busy making her friend look good, she's not focused on her own flying at all. [gasps] This must be our friendship problem! And there's only one thing to do!
You don't want to tell them?
Of course not! Flying is like thirty percent skill and seventy percent confidence! You can't mess with a flyer's confidence!
But you can't improve if you don't think you have to! Besides, Vapor's keeping a pretty big secret from Sky, and that could lead to trouble!
Yeah, but if we tell them that they've been holding each other back, that could be trouble too!
Ah, I nailed that flipping loop. I'm actually surprised you're still here. Thought I blew you away.
[out of breath] You were... great, Sky.
Come on, Vapor Trail! You're gonna have to build up your endurance if you want a shot at the Academy! Wonderbolts don't get winded! Angel Wings, you call that cloud-busting?! That cloud barely knew you were there! I love my job.
We'll keep working, and who knows? One day, you might come close to being almost as good as me.
You do have a really great sneeze.
Thanks, Sky, but I don't think I can sneeze my way into the Academy. [sighs] I'm pretty beat. I'm gonna hit the showers.
You have to help her.
Actually, she's not the one—
Will do!
Hey, you did great. You're a really strong flyer.
Uh, me?
Vapor Trail, we know what you've been doing.
You've been doing great!
[groans] You've been helping Sky!
Uh, I don't know what you're talking about! Sky doesn't need anypony's help. He's amazing.
[sighs] Not without you. And it's gonna be pretty obvious during the solo trials when he can't get enough air to do a flipping loop.
Oh, no! I can't let that happen! I mean, ah, uh... Aw, sugarcubes!
Why are you doing this for him?
[sighs] It started when we were kids. You have to understand...
[narrating] ...Sky grew up with a lot of siblings. It was tough. He was always trying to get his parents' attention. Meanwhile, I was an only child who hated all the attention I got from mine.
"Twirly Whirly": Vapor Trail! Where are you? Do you need a snack? Do you wanna do homework?
"Steer Straight": Or we can just spend some time together! All day is never enough!
Mom, Dad, I'm here! Look, look, look-look-look-look, hey! Mom, Dad, can you see?
Whoa, that was amazing!
[narrating] Flying together gave us both what we wanted! But I never told Sky how much I was helping him. It started with a small boost here or a little gust of wind there, but I didn't think my help could actually hurt his chances.
I understand. But now you're both in trouble!
You need to work on your tricks, and Sky needs to be able to fly without you or he won't make it.
Oh, but he has to! Flying with the Wonderbolts has been Sky's dream ever since he was a colt!
What about you?
I... I guess I haven't thought about it. I just want to be with my best friend.
Then we have to find a way to help both of you.
Starting with telling Sky the truth.
No, you can't! Sky will be crushed! And without his confidence, he won't fly as well!
[sighs] Then I guess we'll give Dash's method a shot.
Yes! Hah-hah! I love being right! Okay, here's what we do. Sky needs to build his strength. Air drills, wing lifts, all that boring methodical stuff.
Sounds like my cup of oats.
But how will we get him to do that? He doesn't think he needs practice.
We'll just tell Sky that he should practice with Twilight so you won't feel so self-conscious about getting special training from me.
With you? Really?! You'd do that for me?
Hah. You say that like it's not gonna be a blast.
Whooa... Ah!
Oh, you were awesome!
Really? Thanks! I can't believe I was able to keep up!
That's the first nice thing I've heard you say about yourself.
Hey, can we switch now? I want to do tricks with Rainbow Dash!
You can't! I mean, uh, you're already so good at the fancy stuff!
Heh. And the basic stuff. [beat] You're right, I don't need to practice at all.
Um, maybe, Sky, you should...
I'm already the best and everypony's gonna know it when I'm asked to join the Academy tomorrow.
But not if you don't practice...!
Heh. I wouldn't be surprised if they asked me to become a Wonderbolt straight out of the trials. Boom, dream achieved.
What did you say?
[sighs] Sky, I want you to get in as much as anypony, and you're amazing, but...
But what?
I've been... helping you.
Gyuh...
[panting] How can you do this to me? Did you all know? Oh, great. So everypony but me knows I'm a joke. Was this your plan the whole time? To embarrass me?
What? No! Don't you know me at all?
I guess not, since it took me this long to find out you're a terrible wingpony!
[gasps] I can't believe you!
I can't believe I was ever your friend!
Thanks a lot.
Do you think they're still mad?
Yeah, they're still mad.
This is all my fault. If we'd just done things your way, maybe we could have avoided this whole mess.
No, it's my fault. It hit me when I was watching Sky train with you. He wasn't even trying!
Oh, no. He's lost his confidence.
Do you want to tell me why one of my most promising students is flying like a balloon with a hole in it?!
Uh, it's a long story, but we'll fix it.
[groans] We really messed up, huh?
I have a plan.
Hey, Sky. I thought I might find you here.
Well, apparently, I need a lot of practice. Guess I'm not the natural I thought I was.
No, you're not.
[sarcastic] Thanks. Good pep talk.
I wasn't a natural at friendship. But with some practice and help from my friends, I got better, and now I'm the Princess of Friendship!
So you're saying I can be the... Princess of Flying?
You know, you're really good. You're lead pony material.
Hm. That's sweet of you, but no. I couldn't handle all the attention.
But you'll never become a Wonderbolt if you're too afraid to shine. That is what you want, right?
Well, not at first. I just wanted to be with Sky. But learning to do all those fun tricks with you? It made me realize this is something I want for myself!
I was hoping you'd say that. Come with me.
What's she doing here?
Sky, Vapor was never trying to steal your spotlight. She thought she was helping you.
And Vapor, you shouldn't have been so content to take a back seat.
Now, you can either stay mad, or help each other and become two of the greatest flyers the Wonderbolt Academy has ever seen! [beat] Please pick the second option. I don't want Spitfire to be mad at me.
You got this, Sky!
Focus on a cloud when you spin! It'll help you fly straight when you come out of it!
Uh-huh!
Congratulations! You've both made it into the Wonderbolt Academy!
Whatever you did, it worked. They still have a lot of potential. Who knows? They might even be better than you, Crash.
[laughing] Okay, let's not get carried away.
Um, I just wanted you to know, you two are my new favorite ponies in all of Equestria.
Hey, I heard that!
I can't believe we did it!
You were great! Even though you can out-fly me, you can be my wingpony anytime.
Aw. [chuckles] And you can be mine.
Phew. It's good to be home.
[sighs] You're telling me. Now we can finally catch up with some Daring Do, I can make cider with Applejack—
Dash! I've been looking all over for you! Wonderbolt emergency! We got to get back to HQ.
[grunting, yelps] Well, we don't all have magical horns.
I've been meaning to move these older books to my reference section for a while. Got to keep the new books front and center! Thank you both for your help.
Are you kidding? After all you've done for me, this is the least I can do.
Oh, please. I haven't done that much.
Nah. You just taught me the value of friendship. Not much at all.
I may have offered some guidance, but you are responsible for the pony you've become. I'm proud to call you my student and my friend. Now we just need to get rid of these boxes. Spike, can you—? Spike?
What's that?
Is it a bird?
Is it a parasprite?
It's... it's... incoming!
Oh. I usually get letters by dragon.
It is the fastest way to get mail!
For me? Who'd be sending me a letter? It's... the ponies from my old village.
Are they in danger?
Are they upset with you?
No... It's worse! They've invited me to the annual Sunset Festival!
[exhales] Uh, hey there, everypony.
Uh... Hey, Starlight. What are you doing here?
I-I... I was invited. To the Sunset Festival?
Uh, yeah, but we didn't think you'd actually show up.
You didn't think we really wanted you here, did you?
But... I... apologized. I thought everything was fine.
Please...! Stop...! Stop!
What happened? Is anypony there? Princess Luna? W-What are you doing here?
Dreams are my domain, Starlight Glimmer. I am here because you need me to be.
Oh. It's only a dream.
It may only be a dream, but the feelings in it are real.
[sighs] Great. So I guess I'm more afraid of going back to the village than I thought. What do I do now?
I have been helped time and time again by six very special ponies. They helped me overcome my past. You're fortunate to have them as friends. I suggest you share your concerns with them. I see much of myself in you, Starlight Glimmer, and I can tell you from personal experience that things do indeed get better.
...and Princess Luna said I should tell you all how I was feeling. So... there it is. I'm afraid to go back to the village for the celebration.
But why, darling? You went back to apologize. They accepted. Everypony has moved on.
But have they? They don't really know how much I've changed. Or even worse, maybe I haven't changed as much as I think I have!
Trust me. You are a totally different pony now. I mean, you were pretty awful.
Rainbow Dash!
What? She was! It's a compliment!
I don't think they would've sent the invitation if they didn't want you to come. I'm sure they'd be happy to see you.
And getting an invitation to a party and not going?! That's like... I-It's like...! Well, I don't know what it's like, but it is definitely bad.
Just be honest with them. I'm sure they'll understand where you're comin' from.
I understand how hard this is for you. Maybe if you took a friend along, it might make things easier. Somepony you trust who would look out for you?
Thanks so much for doing this, Trixie. When Twilight said I should bring a friend, you were the first pony I thought of.
Great idea, Princess Twilight. Asking me – Starlight's best friend – to help her on this difficult journey really shows how wise a princess you have become.
[through gritted teeth] Thanks, Trixie. [hushed, to Spike] I was talking about me.
The festival lasts a whole week, but I'm sure we won't stay that long.
There it is! The town where you—
Magically stole everypony's cutie marks, replaced them with equal signs, and forced them all to hide their natural talents? Yes.
I was going to say where you came from, but yours is a more... emotionally traumatic answer.
[sighs] I just want to... blend in. Be just another pony in the crowd enjoying the Sunset Festival with my friend.
Sounds good to me! And if things get weird for you, just let me know. I've got your flank.
Is that a promise?
Not just a promise. A great and powerful promise!
Well, I couldn't ask for more than that. If we're gonna do this, let's do it.
Oh! Starlight, you came!
We were worried you wouldn't be able to make it! Are you staying the whole week? We have different events planned each day!
How is it living in a castle?
It is so good to see you!
[small groan] It's good to see all of you, too.
You got here just in time. We were having some debate about these banners. Which do you think feels more "sunsetty"?
O-Oh, you don't need me to decide that. Heh. Whatever you think is probably best.
Uh, well, how about helping us with the routes for the relay races tomorrow? Can you take a look?
Oh, I-I shouldn't. You all go ahead. I-I just want to enjoy the festival.
But you will be a judge for the baking competition, right?
We had a few questions about the order of the acts for the talent show.
And the unicorns have a fireworks show planned! We could really use your help!
The Great and Powerful Trixie would like to thank you all for being such an amazing audience. Sadly, it is time for us to depart. Good night, fillies and gentlefoals!
Ugh! I was horrible when I led that town! I was ready for them to not trust me, but... I wasn't ready for them to put me in charge again! With my past, I should never be in charge of anything!
So you messed up. Big deal. [hushed] Don't you ever tell another pony I said this, but even Trixie's made mistakes. [giggles] I know! The trick is to just move on and pretend they never happened.
I feel like that's almost good advice.
Hey, uh, Pinkie Pie!
Hey... [beat] you!
So... you're probably wondering why I'm back so soon.
Where were you?
I... went to my old village? For the festival?
Ooh, sounds fun! How was it?
It was kind of a disaster. I came back early because I freaked out!
Ooh, sounds awful! Bye!
That was... strange.
Isn't she always strange?
Yeah, but not like that. Hey! I'm back early.
Ah. Welcome back?
Have you two noticed Pinkie acting a little strange?
Pinkie Pie always acts strange.
Told you.
Anyway, I wanted to talk to all of you. Things didn't go the way I thought they were going to go at the Sunset Festival.
What happened?
I kind of freaked out and ran out of the village.
You freaked out and ran away from a festival? Ha! That's the funniest danged thing I've heard all day.
[laughing] Oh my. Let me guess. The decorations were terrifying!
[whispering] ...Applejack for friendship business.
Hello, ponies. We need Rarity and Applejack. Very important friendship business.
I have to say, I'm really not as impressed with your friends as the rest of Equestria is.
I need to talk to Twilight!
Twilight? Hello?
What do you want? Twilight's very busy!
Spike, I really need to speak with her.
Make an appointment! She's a princess, after all!
What's wrong with you? Why are you being so—
Rude? I think a certain dragon didn't get his nap today.
Yeah, right. Whatever.
Sorry. He's been acting a little off all day. I think he missed a meal or something.
He's not the only one. Everypony's acting a little strange today.
Yes, it's definitely been one of those days! How are you?
Not great, actually. You're probably wondering why I'm back from the village so early.
I didn't want to bring it up, but yeah, it did seem strange. Did it not go well?
The townsponies kept asking me things, like they expected me to be in charge again. But being a leader is the last thing I should ever be. So we left. Very suddenly. In a literal puff of smoke.
Wow, you should definitely never go back to that village.
What?
If you were worried about what they thought of you before, it's probably way worse now. I'd cut my losses.
That's... surprising advice, coming from you.
Trust me. I'm the Princess of Friendship. You don't need those ponies. You can always make more friends.
Ah! Speaking of friends, if you'll excuse me, important business to attend to!
Cut my losses? That can't be right.
Hey, I wanted to apologize for my behavior earlier. Party Favor, can you hear me?
I told you you can never speak to them again!
What are you all doing here?
Making sure you do what I said! I'm your teacher, aren't I? Didn't I say to never come back here?!
Yes, but that just doesn't seem right. You aren't acting like yourself.
Something is wrong!
A dream? This is another dream!
[whispering] Starlight Glimmer...!
Princess Luna?
Starlight Glimmer!
Princess Luna, where are you?
Starlight Glimmer, there is no time! You must get help!
What? What are you talking about? This is just a dream!
Not here! In the waking world! They've taken my sister and I! It's worse than the last time! Your dream called to me, and I was able to break through! You must find help!
What are you saying?! Who's taken you?!
Princess Luna!
[panting] They're back!
Trixie? Trixie, it's Starlight! Are you awake?
[muffled, bleary] Of course, Princess Celestia... I'd love to perform for peanut butter crackers...
Trixie, wake up!
[coughing] [tired] Starlight? What time is it?
It's late. I think I figured out what's wrong with my friends!
[yawning] I have a whole list of things that are wrong with your friends. We can go over it in the morning.
No, Trixie, we're in danger!
[sighs] Okay, fine! Aside from lack of sleep, how are we in danger?
I think the—! [beat] What did you tell me never to tell another pony?
Starlight, if you woke me up to play guessing games—
After we left my village, what did you tell me to never tell another pony you said?
[sighs] [through very gritted teeth] That even Trixie's made mistakes.
Trixie, there's no time for this! What did you say?
That even Trixie's made mistakes! Okay? Are you happy?!
[sighs] Yes. Sorry. I just had to make sure you weren't... [hushed] one of them!
[hushed] One of who?
A changeling! I think they've taken Princess Celestia and Princess Luna!
What?! Are you sure?! I mean, what do we—? We have to tell Twilight!
If I'm right, then it's too late for that.
Is it ready?
Just one more.
Queen Chrysalis!
Ugh. I can't take any of you seriously when you look like that.
Oh, right.
Much better. Now report!
Everything here is going according to plan! We've replaced the six ponies and their dragon, and have taken control of the castle!
Excellent. And I've just received word that the princesses from Canterlot have successfully been replaced as well.
[panting] I can't deal with this! I'm just a performer! This is... This is princess-level stuff! But the changelings have all the princesses... We're doomed!
Maybe not. Uh, Queen Chrysalis only said they took Luna and Celestia and obviously Twilight and the others... but maybe Cadance is still safe. Our best bet is to get to the Crystal Empire before the changelings do. That way we can—
There's no help coming from the Crystal Empire.
Thorax?
Yes.
Your wings look... different.
I guess they do.
How do I know you aren't some other changeling pretending to be Thorax?
You were there when Spike defended me to the ponies of the Crystal Empire. Princess Twilight said—
As the Princess of Friendship, I should set an example for all of Equestria. But today it was Spike who taught me—
Okay, okay. I believe you. We don't need the whole speech.
Trixie, this is Thorax. He's a reformed changeling. He's on our side. Understand?
Hi. It's a pleasure to...
If Starlight says you're on our side, I believe her. But maybe just stay over there for now, okay?
What did you mean there's no help? Did the changelings get Cadance too?
They took Cadance, Shining Armor, and Flurry Heart! Sunburst sent me here to get Princess Twilight's help, but... but it sounds like it's too late for that, too! So... what should we do?
Yeah, Starlight. What are we gonna do?
I... I don't know! There has to be somepony else who can handle this?
There is nopony else! Everypony with powerful magic is already gone!
You know whenever ponies talk about powerful magic, they always leave me out. If I weren't so evolved, I might decide to take it personally. Well, isn't this quite the combination of secondary characters? Where are Twilight and the girls?
First, how do we know that you're really you?
Shall I continue?
Chrysalis and the changelings are back. They've ponynapped all of the most powerful ponies in Equestria! Celestia, Luna, Cadance, Shining Armor, Flurry Heart, Twilight and her friends. We need to—
[hushed] They took Fluttershy?
Yes!
[menacingly] Where?
The Changeling Kingdom. With you on our side, I can—
Odd. I was trying to take us right to Fluttershy, but there is no Fluttershy.
[whimpers] I think I have a pretty good idea where she might be...
I'd hoped never to see that place again. Now what?
It's... the ponies from my old village.
Oh. It's only a dream.
With my past, I should never be in charge of anything!
They've taken my sister and I! It's worse than the last time!
Chrysalis and the changelings are back. They've ponynapped all of the most powerful ponies in Equestria!
...this is Thorax. He's a reformed changeling.
[hushed] They took Fluttershy?
[whimpers] I think I have a pretty good idea where she might be...
Oh, this is so strange. We're here and that's there, and I clearly meant for us to be there and not here.
Oh, I-I can probably explain—
Oh, well. If at first you don't succeed...
Maybe we should come up with a plan first?
[blows] A what?
You know, figuring out the best way to do something before you actually do it.
[laughs] Oh, that's adorable. But you see, unlike you, I can do anything.
Uh, actually—
That's all very nice, but really a waste of time. We have me. And what else could we possibly need?
A draconequus with magic and half a brain might help.
Why are you here again? I mean, it's not like you're going to stop the changelings by pulling a rabbit out of a hat. At least my magic can do something.
The thing about magic here is—
I've been trying to tell you! Nothing other than changeling magic works here. Chrysalis' throne is carved from an ancient dark stone that soaks up outside magic the same way changelings soak up love. It's how she keeps the hive safe.
[to Starlight] So, uh, what kind of plan were you thinking?
Without magic, I have no idea. But nopony else is coming. So somepony better come up with something.
Anypony? Anything? Hmm. This throne – if we get into the hive and destroy it, can we get our magic back?
Uh-huh!
Well, that's a terrible plan. How are we even supposed to get to the hive?
We walk.
I haven't walked that far in a millennia!
Oh, I don't know how any of you manage not being able to disappear and reappear whenever you want!
Well, I, for one, definitely miss you being able to disappear!
Give Discord a break. None of us knew we weren't going to be able to use magic.
I did.
If we get separated, it might make sense to have a way to make sure we are who we say we are.
How about if we say "klutzy" and you say "draconequus"?
"Klutzy draconequus". Works for me.
I'll definitely remember it.
Okay. I am definitely glad you came. I don't think we'd be able to find our way without you.
You definitely wouldn't.
Um, where's the way out?
It's a changeling hive. It shifts and changes like we do, and we're the only ones who can navigate it. It's total chaos to non-changelings.
Well, it's decent chaos. I don't know if I'd call it "total".
Are we sure that I'll get my magic back when we destroy this throne thingy?
If Thorax is right, then yes.
[sarcastic] Well, that's reassuring.
And how are we supposed to destroy the throne when we find it?
I... don't know.
[sarcastic] That's reassuring.
I don't suppose you brought any throne-destroying tools along with these useless sideshow props.
Asks the Lord of Chaos who can't go for a walk without whining nonstop!
Yes, but when the throne is destroyed, I'll be able to rip the very fabric of reality to save our friends, while you'll still be a self-absorbed, below-average illusionist!
Self-absorbed?! Why, you...!
Cut. It. Out! I'm just barely keeping it together, and it would be wonderful if you two could actually try to help instead of bickering like foals!
[defeated] Okay.
How can we help?
Don't ask me! I couldn't even handle giving advice at the Sunset Festival, and I had magic then! And the three of us are as good as useless! At least Thorax knows where we're going.
Um, guys? I think we're lost.
Oh, great. We might as well just sit here and wait for the changelings to soak up all of our love or whatever gross thing it is that they do. How often do you all get hungry?
Actually, I haven't been since I met Spike. And changelings are always hungry. We can never get enough love.
Well, that's just super—
But you aren't hungry at all now?
Huh. Once I made a few friends, I guess I just sort of forgot about the whole feeding thing.
Is that about the same time your wings changed?
I guess so.
[hushed] Can you please lower your voice?! You're gonna get us all captured!
Oh, you keep saying that, but I haven't seen an actual changeling since we got into this hive.
W-What's that?
A changeling patrol!
This seems like one of those moments where we need a plan.
What kind of plan?! We have no magic, and it's not like my illusions are gonna save us!
Do you have any of your smoke bombs?
Are you kidding?
Looking for somepony?
Not exactly great and powerful, but effective.
Hm. I'll take it.
"Klutzy"...
..."draconequus"!
Ugh. I really think we need a new code word!
That was a pretty good plan.
But we still don't know where we're going.
Actually, we might. Two of the changelings didn't go with the rest.
Oh! With an intruder in the hive, they went to protect the queen! Good thinking, Starlight!
Now what?
We... go in.
Even if I wanted to, there's no way past the guards. We'll be spotted for sure.
We need some kind of... distraction.
I'm fresh out of smoke bombs.
Normally, I'm the most distracting thing I can think of, but without magic...
You shouldn't underestimate yourself.
[taps microphone] Hello, changelings and changelettes! Believe me, I was just as surprised as you are that I'm here! When I heard that I'd be playing for a bunch of changelings, I was beside myself! Then I realized, it was just one of you.
[nervous laugh] But, seriously, this isn't the toughest crowd I've ever been in front of. But it's definitely the easiest to bug!
Well, if you think that you can do any better, be my guest!
It is absolutely ridiculous that that worked.
It is certainly a pleasure to have such dedicated fans. I'll have to come back with some new material after I rescue Fluttershy.
Fluttershy!
Discord! I'm stuck!
You certainly are. And I should probably help you get free. But... oh-ho-ho-ho-ho...
But what?
But you are obviously not Fluttershy!
Oh.
I mean, I'm separated from the group and just happen to come across the one pony I care most about? I can smell this setup a mile away.
[sniffs, crying] No. You're right. There's no way you should trust me. Just go find the others. [wailing] I understand!
Oh, come on!
Fluttershy # We're probably all changelings. You shouldn't rescue any of us. Unless, you think, maybe one of us might be the real Fluttershy. Oh, that certainly would be a nasty changeling trick, wouldn't it?
Fluttershy # I'm the real one.
Fluttershy # I'm the real one.
Fluttershy # I'm the real Fluttershy.
We can't wait for Discord. Between seeing him and Trixie, the castle will be crawling with guards soon.
But if we do manage to destroy Chrysalis' throne, we'll need him. He could take on the entire changeling army by sneezing if he wanted to.
He's probably already been captured!
Hello? Fellow rescuers?
We can't stay here. We gotta find the throne.
Ooh! I heard some of the changelings who were chasing me say that they know where it is!
"Klutzy"...?
Hmm? Oh. Yeah. [chuckling] I-I can be klutzy. Now, follow me.
[whispering] You know that's not Discord, right?
Obviously.
This way! We're almost there!
I know this trick. If he says to go left, we should definitely go right. He's leading us to a swarm waiting to attack!
[sighs] Okay, I'll handle it. You two just get ready to run into the other tunnel.
Wait, what?! Trixie, you can't! I won't know what to do! We've already lost Discord; I can't lose you too! Without magic, I—
Starlight. You got us this far with just my illusions and Discord's annoying personality. You don't need magic to figure out what to do next. I know you're afraid to be in charge, but you are really good at it! Listen to your best friend. Hey, Discord! Want to see the new trick I've been working on? I call it the "Changeling Catcher"! Run!
[nervously] Ta-da...
[laughing evilly] One little pony all by herself. [joints cracking] Oh, how will I ever prevent this daring rescue?
Well, well, well. The Princess of Friendship's sole pupil. Honestly, I didn't think you were worth replacing with one of my drones.
[strains] You won't get away with this!
I already have. Nopony is coming to save you. Your little squad was it. And now, there's just you.
Thorax is still out there.
Don't mention that traitor's name in my kingdom! He was a fool to leave and even more a fool to return! When I find him, he'll learn just what happens to those who betray the hive!
And it seems I don't have far to look, do I...
Thorax?
Very clever. And clearly Thorax revealed to you the secret of my throne. I can't have powerful ponies using their abilities against me. Even with your rather embarrassing little rescue attempt, everything has gone according to my plan.
What plan? Why did you do all this?!
What if you didn't have to?
Ridiculous! The hunger of changelings can never be satisfied!
Exactly! Thorax left the hive and made a friend. He shared love, and now he doesn't need to feed. You don't have to live your lives starving all the time!
You know nothing of the changelings or what it takes to be their queen! I decide what is best for my subjects, not some mewling grub!
I know what it's like to lead by fear and intimidation! And I know what it's like to want everypony to do what you say! But I was wrong. A real leader doesn't force her subjects to deny who they are! She celebrates what makes them unique and listens when one of them finds a better way!
The only thing Thorax has found is what happens to those who turn their back on the hive!
No! Stop!
Just as soon as I drain every last ounce of love from him and show my subjects what a real leader is!
[straining] I can feel the love inside me slipping away...! I can't hold onto it much longer...!
Then don't! Sharing love is what made you different to begin with! You should share yours with Chrysalis! Give her all of it!
This is what happens when you give love freely instead of taking it!
Fluttershy?
It's, um, good to see you, too.
Starlight? What happened?
We defeated the changelings with no magic at all, they found a new leader, and... they're all kinda... good now.
Well done, Starlight Glimmer. It seems as though you've learned a great deal since we last spoke.
When Twilight and her friends defeated me, I chose to run away and seek revenge! You don't have to! You can be the leader your subjects deserve.
There is no revenge you could ever conceive of that will come close to what I will exact upon you one day, Starlight Glimmer!
Thorax, as the new leader of the changelings, I look forward to discussing how we can improve our relationship in the future. However, for the moment, perhaps it is best that we leave the Changeling Kingdom to the changelings.
Splendid idea! Now who's ready for some celebratory tea at Fluttershy's?!
Oh! Uh, everypony?
Actually, now that you can snap your claws and send us absolutely anywhere again, I think I have a better option.
Uh, hey, Starlight. What are you doing here?
You left in such a hurry before, we kinda thought you didn't wanna come.
Yeah... I guess after the way I used my magic on all of you, I wasn't sure I was somepony who should even be in charge of a baking contest. I was afraid I might go back to being the pony I used to be. But I realize that sometimes you don't have a choice. You have to step up. And I have changed! I can handle it. Whether that means saving Equestria or helping friends out with the Sunset Festival. Speaking of which, I know the Festival's almost over, but I kinda invited a few of my friends to join. Hope that's okay.
[laughing] Are you kidding? Of course!
Great! Now where's that baking contest? This pony needs a cupcake!
So I'm able to rip the very fabric of reality again.
Yeah, yeah. And I'm still a self-absorbed, below-average illusionist, right?
Actually, I was going to say a couple of those illusions were slightly above average. If you ever need a little chaos in your act, let me know.
Ha! When pigs fly!
Whoa! Whoooooaaaa!
Somepony is really gonna have to catch us up on what we missed.
Hey, Spike. What's up?
Just, uh, wanted to make sure you're ready for your big ceremony today.
Yep!
Wow, I still can't believe my friends and I are getting medals...
Shhh!
...of honor.
Are you kidding? You totally deserve it! After all, you... saved Equestria from... Queen Chrysalis! With the help of Trixie and Thorax and Discord and...
Uh, yeah. I know what happened. I was kinda there.
Uh, right. Uh, so... what are you wearin'?
Not sure. Why? Am I supposed to dress up?
What are you looking at?
No, don't look!
'Cause there was a spider there, but it's, uh, gone now, so, uh... thanks, Starlight! Byeeee!
Huh?
Ha-ha! She had no idea. We're a good team, Sparkle!
"Sparkle"? [laughs] Yeah, we are. So do you think she'll like it? I want this present to say, "I'm so proud of you both as a mentor and a friend. Equestria is safer thanks to you."
Oh. I thought you were getting her a mirror like yours.
I am.
Uh, maybe you should get her a card 'cause I don't think the mirror will say all that. But I think she'll like it.
It's just what her room needs. The first thing she'll see when she wakes up is herself surrounded by all her friends. I plan on giving it to her after the ceremony.
Yeah, about that. Don't you need to get the castle ready for the celebration?
Nah. Pinkie Pie's got that covered.
Hmmm.
Phew!
Starlight, Trixie, Thorax, and Discord were brave in the face of danger, resourceful when things got challenging, and proved that the bonds of friendship, no matter how unlikely, are stronger than any adversity. By stopping Queen Chrysalis, not only did they save Equestria; they set the changelings free from her reign.
And that's why we're proud and honored to give them the Equestrian Pink Hearts of Courage!
Yeah! Oh. Uh, no. Not quite. Uh... all right. There it is!
Yay!
We are so proud of you all!
It was the Great and Powerful Trrrrixie's pleasure to save you from your imminent doom.
Yes, because you did it all by yourself.
I can't believe you managed to do it without magic.
It was amazing!
No one's ever stood up to Chrysalis like that!
Oh, I just did what anypony would have done.
It's a wonderful feeling, isn't it? Watching your student shine the way you always knew they could.
[laughs] My cheeks are sore! I don't think I've ever smiled this much in my life!
I can only imagine what that feels like.
Yes, Starlight is student of the year, isn't she? She has so much potential. So, what are we going to do with her? And by "we", I definitely mean "you". Being her mentor and all that, her destiny falls squarely on your haunches.
Oh, don't you worry. I've planned enough friendship lessons to cover the next three years.
What's so funny?
No, no. Clearly, Starlight is beyond basic friendship lessons. She just won a medal, for Equestria's sake. I thought you were joking. You are joking, right?
[nervous laugh] Of course I was.
Obviously, you should have a grand master plan for her, the same way Celestia set you on the path that eventually made you a princess.
Yep.
Oh, good. I'm sure she can't wait to hear all about it.
So how's the whole ruling-a-kingdom thing going?
It's a bit overwhelming. But we're adjusting.
So, uh, you can't have friendship without makeovers?
Eh, not-not exactly.
Oh, Starlight. Princess Twilight has something very important to tell us. Well, just you, really, but I'm nosy and I want to hear.
Okay. Would you excuse m—?
Never mind. What's going on?
Well, Twilight was just about to reveal her grand master plan for you.
Really? I was kind of wondering what we were gonna do next.
Yes. I'd say we were both fairly interested.
Starlight, come on! The Ponyville Chronicle wants to take our picture! Ugh. You, too, Discord.
Psst! I see what you're doing.
You do?
You already planned the perfect moment during the party to make the grand announcement to everypony about your plan. Brava, Twilight! I can't wait to tell your plan to Fluttershy and the others!
Discord, no!
Twilight, are you reading during a party... again?
No, no, no! She's already good at that! She mastered this! She taught me about this one!
Wild guess – something's wrong.
Whoa!
I had years worth of friendship lessons ready to go, but when we were captured by Chrysalis, Starlight took charge and really stepped up. I don't think friendship lessons are enough for her anymore.
So you have an overachieving student. Sounds familiar.
That's why I had to talk to you. You, of all ponies, would know what to do. I mean, you were me and I was Starlight. But, for now, I need you to pretend you're you and I'm me.
Huh?
Heh. Go on.
When I was your student, and you were in this place, you— Oh, no! You sent me to Ponyville! Which means it's time for me to send Starlight Glimmer away!
I can't believe it! It's really time for Starlight to go, isn't it?
Only you can make that decision. It's a difficult one, but your heart knows what's right, even as it hurts.
Where're you gonna send her? Uh, too soon?
No. This is something I have to do. Oh, boy.
Oh, boy!
Whatever Twilight's planning for Starlight is going to be so exciting!
Hmm. Wonder why she didn't tell any of us about it.
Probably because you're not as close as you think you are. [laughs] Just kidding. She wanted it to be a big surprise. Just between us, she's getting ready to make a big announcement!
[squeals] That's so exciting! And surprising. Usually, you tell your party planner about all your plans for your party.
Well, she definitely has one. I mean when has Twilight not had a plan?
[low muttering] Gosh, I don't know... I just don't want to send her to the wrong place... [sighs] I just, I just don't know... [gasps] I got it! Since defeating Chrysalis, Starlight's given the changelings an opportunity to revolutionize their society. Maybe I can send her there.
Cool spell.
If Starlight goes to the changeling hive, she can help them adjust to their new way of life.
Okay, Friendship 101. Thorax and I are going to show you how to compromise.
[stiltedly] I want to have honeysuckle nectar for lunch.
[stiltedly] I would like a sandwich. Oh, no. What should we do?
Attack! The winner gets to choose!
Or... Thorax and I can talk about it and come up with a solution that works for everypony.
[stiltedly] Starlight, how do you feel about honeysuckle and peanut butter sandwiches?
[stiltedly] Why, that sounds dee-licious!
Compromise.
Uh, this doesn't seem like something Starlight and Thorax would do.
Uh, this is Twilight's fantasy, Spike. There is no wrong way to fantasize.
Thank you.
Starlight Glimmer is a most apt and perspicacious pony!
Yep. Definitely a Twilight fantasy.
This seems like a lovely path for Starlight. The changelings have so much to learn about how to enjoy love through friendships. Starlight would be busy for a very long time, but her work there would be very rewarding.
Or dangerous. It would only take one changeling to deviate from the pack.
[evil laugh] Hi, I'm Starlight Glimmer! What's your name?
Uh, Cornicle?
[laughs] What kind of name is that? Ah, your wings are so, um... see-through. I'm so glad I'm a pony. Are you, like, bugs, or what?
[gasps] There she is! Get her!
Uh, that probably won't happen.
But it could! I can't just send her off to Celestia-knows-where without thinking it through!
Hmm. I was not aware that I was an expression. An appropriate one, of course, for even I don't know the answer. This is a momentous decision. You must consider all the possibilities.
Rethink, rethink, rethink! What about the dragons? I can send Starlight to the Dragon Lands! She and Ember would totally hit it off!
Ember!
Starlight!
You ready to do some death-defying dragon stuff?
Ah, totally!
Okay, that doesn't sound anything like Ember or Starlight.
Who knows what their dynamic would be, Spike?
Freaky.
Starlight will love it in the Dragon Lands. In her letters, Ember said dragons do a lot of fun things. The Feast of Fire, the Dragon Bowl, Claw-chella.
Starlight could be there for a really long time. But then again, not all dragons like ponies as much as Ember does.
Hey, Twinkle Star!
It's, uh, Starlight Glimmer.
Star-kle Light-star?
Starlight. Glimmer.
Yeah, whatever. You wanna hang with us?
What are we diving into?
Lava!
What?!
Twilight, this is crazy!
Starlight's really good with magic. She could just stop herself from falling into a pit of lava.
What if she didn't realize it was happening?! You just never know, Spike! I just need to think of someplace safe to send her! Someplace safe, someplace safe, someplace safe... I could send her to the Crystal Empire to continue her magical studies with Sunburst!
It'll be perfect! Sunburst's knowledge of magic is only matched by Starlight's abilities.
I've got it! Try placing your horn directly on the potion and picture the clock you wish to make.
They could challenge each other into becoming the most talented unicorns Equestria's ever seen!
We did it! Quick, what's next?
Of course, the study of magic is a lifelong pursuit, and Starlight could be there for a while, especially once they start attempting the really complicated stuff!
Three, two, one...
What if they become too ambitious?!
I never would've thought to combine Star Swirl's apparition spell with Spacium Flexibus! But what would happen if we added Somnambula's Tempus Objectus?
If we do it just right, it should allow us to materialize an object that was lost in the past.
No! Don't do it!
Starlight, noooooo!
Twilight, snap out of it!
Easy, Twilight. It didn't happen.
But it could! I just don't think I can send her anywhere. What am I gonna do?
Are you laughing at me?
I can't believe you're laughing at me.
Oh, Twilight, I'm not. I'm laughing because I had the exact same fears you're having.
What?!
Let me tell you a story. Once upon a time, there was a very bright young filly.
[voiceover] She was truly one of my best students.
[voiceover] Are you talking about Twilight? I can't see what you're thinking about.
[voiceover] Yes, Spike. I was constantly surprised and impressed with her discoveries. But I noticed that her pursuit of academia was preventing her from reaching her full potential.
[voiceover] You mean it was keeping her isolated and alone?
[voiceover] Uh, yes, Spike. I had a decision to make. Oh, but it wasn't easy.
Maybe I could close the library or throw a party in the castle. Oh, she'd have to talk to the other fillies then! Oh. I must send her away.
[voiceover] I knew there was a special group of fillies in Ponyville, but I kept inventing all kinds of reasons why I shouldn't send you.
What if she runs into a manticore? Or what if she gets pulled into Tartarus? Or, worst of all, what if she doesn't get along with anypony?!
Are we supposed to say something?
I don't think so.
[voiceover] I kept you in Canterlot longer than I should have.
Eventually, I realized all the anxiety I felt was because I didn't want you to go.
Really?
I loved having you as a student. You challenged me and taught me just as much as I taught you. I am embarrassed to admit it, but I was afraid if you made friends, you wouldn't need me anymore.
Princess Celestia, that is so not true. I will always need you.
I think Starlight Glimmer might feel the same way about you. If that is what you're afraid of.
Maybe it is. Just a little.
[chuckles] Oh, it definitely is. Like, a lot.
Here we are after all these years, Twilight. We are living proof that letting someone spread their wings doesn't mean you no longer have a place in their lives.
Thank you.
And if you're still worried, you can always make her write you letters.
I may have let it slip that you'd be unveiling your big plan for Starlight tonight. Silly me. But we're all very excited to hear what you've cooked up.
You weren't coming up with a plan just now, were you? Oh, dear. This could be pretty embarrassing for you.
[sarcastically] Gee, thanks, Discord.
Anytime. I really do love being helpful.
If I could have everypony's attention! As you all know, Starlight Glimmer's been my pupil for a while now, and I'd hoped she'd be my pupil for a long time yet to come. But it turns out that's just not meant to be.
Starlight, you have proved yourself to be a kind, loyal, strong, honest, and truly magical friend. Just looking around this room at all the new friendships you've made, I know there's nothing more I need to teach you. So we have a second reason to celebrate today. Three cheers for Starlight Glimmer on her graduation day!
[squeals, giggles] What a great surprise!
[to Starlight] The future's in your own hooves now.
Wow. I was not expecting this!
Darn it. I was hoping you would send her to my realm. We could've been roomies. Way to not pick up what I was putting down.
How do you want to celebrate? Girls' trip to Las Pegasus?
We could throw you a changeling Gorbfest! Uh, it's more fun than it sounds.
Or we could go cause a little mischief. I know a trick that'll turn Celestia's castle into cheese. Do you think it's a "gouda" idea? [laughs] That's just the first of many cheese jokes if we go down this path.
Well, that all sounds wonderful. But, um, give me a minute, would ya?
Congratulations.
Thanks.
So how do you feel?
Happy, surprised, overwhelmed. I mean, not that I'm not grateful, but are you sure?
Believe me. I've thought long and hard about this.
Of course you did.
Starlight, trust me. You're ready.
Yeah!
No, I'm not.
What are you talking about?
I'm not ready to leave!
Oh, good! 'Cause I'm not ready for that either! Here! I got you this present. It was going to be a "congrats on getting a medal of honor" present, but then I was afraid it would have to be a going-away present, but now it's an "I couldn't be happier you're staying" present! It fits perfectly over your dresser! I know. I measured.
Thank you.
I may not know what comes next for you, but whatever it is, I promise I'll always be there for you.
Oh.
Oh.
Phee-yew!
Come on, come on! Turn into a teacup!
No! Teacup!
No! Teacup!
[screeching] No! [normally] Oh, Starlight! I can't put a trick that's not working into my act! How come it's not working?
It could be because you're just yelling "teacup!" and not picturing it in your mind.
Oh. Yeah, that could be it.
What does your teacup look like? What shape is it? What color?
Whoo! Starlight, I did it!
Woo-hoo-hoo-hoo! I did it, I did it, I did it! Woo-hoo-hoo!
Hey!
Teacup! [giggles] Teacup! Teacup, teacup, teacup! Tea-cup! Teacup, teacup, tea-cup! You know what you need? A teacup!
Whoops! I guess I pictured a teacup poodle? Heh.
Trixie! You ruined my teacakes!
I just got excited! This is the first time I did a transfiguration spell! Real magic! Come on! Be impressed by me! [as Starlight Glimmer] "Yay, Trixie! You're so great at magic and having good hair!"
[chuckles] Good job, Trix. But I was baking these to give to Twilight and the girls for their friendship retreat. Pinkie Pie gave me a recipe and everything.
Problem solved.
[exhales] Not exactly.
I am so excited for this friendship retreat! I can't remember the last time we all got to hang out without having to save Equestria.
Well, we are awesome. But technically, we weren't the last ponies to save Equestria.
I was speaking in a broader sense. Are you sure you don't want to come with us?
Yeah, I have three new comics to get through.
And I promised Trixie we'd practice more magic. It might be better if the castle was empty, if you know what I mean.
[groans] Relax. If anything breaks, Starlight will just go back in time and fix it!
Kidding.
We'll take good care of the castle while you're gone.
Have fun on your friendship retreat! [hushed, to Starlight] What in Equestria is a friendship retreat, anyway?
[hushed] They're gonna bond, share laughs, and if I know them, they're gonna sing a song.
[giggles] We are gonna have so much more fun than them!
[giggles] Shhh!
Twilight, wait! Starlight has something for you!
Huh?
[nervously] Here, I, um, brought you snacks...
Oh, how... thoughtful, thanks. We will... not get hungry on the train.
It was supposed to be teacakes, but... [sighs] it's a long story. Have a great time!
You, too!
Okay, Trixie, what kinds of spells did you want to work on next?
Well, every self-respecting magician has a disappearing act, so maybe we could start with that?
Hmmm. Nothing just disappears, so that's technically a teleportation spell, and those are pretty hard. Maybe we should start with something smaller.
No-no-no-no. The Great and Powerful Trrrrrixie goes big or not at all! Just tell me how you do it.
Well, I've always found magic is tied to my emotions. Whatever I'm feeling fuels whatever I'm doing, and the stronger I'm feeling, the stronger the magic.
Right. Like when you were so upset that cutie marks took away your friend, your magic was strong enough to enslave an entire village.
Yep. Thanks for bringing that up.
See? I'm already learning. If anypony is gonna teach me how to do a disappearing spell—
Teleportation spell.
Whatever. I'm complimenting you. And me. We can do this, 'cause we're amazing, and magic is friendship and stuff.
[laughs] I guess we can give it a whirl. Now, we just need to find you something to teleport.
Spike! How about it?
Uh, let's pick something, I don't know, not living?
I mean it won't be as impressive, but okay. Teach away, mini-Twilight.
"Ginger Locks": [bored] Welcome to Manehattan Escapes.
Ooh, I'm going to start with a facial, and then get my hooves done, and—
Oh, it's not that kind of retreat.
Isn't it called "Manehattan Escapes" because it's a deluxe spa where you can escape all of your troubles?
Nope! It's because we get locked in a room and we have to solve puzzles and riddles in order to escape!
"Ginger Locks": [bored] The clues will lead you to a key to get out.
Team-building!
Come on, girls. This could be fun.
Could be? Some of the brightest minds in Equestria put together these puzzles!
I'm just happy to be with all of you.
Me, too! I'm not great at solving riddles, but I'm super great at cheering other ponies on while they do it! Go, us! Ooo, ooo! Woo-hoo!
Yes, yes, woo-hoo. [clears throat] But just so we know, exactly how long will we be locked in here?
"Ginger Locks": [bored] A group of griffons set the record for the fastest escape. It only took them an hour.
Hah! Griffons barely like each other! We're basically the poster ponies for amazing friendships! So get your quill ready, bub! You're gonna have to write down a new record!
If you master this spell before the girls get back, you'd be setting some kind of record!
Challenge accepted!
Okay. What you want to do is concentrate on the object that you want to teleport...
Yeah, I'm gonna go... all the way over here.
Concentrate on teleporting. Got it. Doin' the spell!
No, Trix, wait, not just—
[weakly] Ta-da.
[hyperventilating] No-no-no-no-no-no-no! You made Twilight's friendship map disappear!
[clears throat] Teleport.
Really?!
Well, it was behind the apple. It was bound to happen. On the plus side, my magic is getting better! I made a whole table go poof! That was pretty impressive!
Trixie, we have to get that map back.
We'll find it. No big deal.
Twilight's never gonna trust me to be alone in this castle again! What were you thinking?!
Teleport, like you told me to.
No! You're supposed to concentrate on the object, not just teleporting!
[scoffs] Well, gee, you probably should have told me all the steps before you let me do the spell.
I tried. [gasps] I... need a minute.
Hey, are you okay?
I will be once I cast a spell to contain my anger in this bottle.
Wait, what?
Do you see this storm cloud? This has never happened before! All this magical energy has to go somewhere, and if I'm not using it to fight a magical duel or bend my friends' wills to obey my every command...
Hah. I remember that.
The point is, I don't know what my magic's going to do. So I'm hoping if I bottle up my anger, I won't do who-knows-what to Trixie.
Are you sure that's a good idea?
What choice do I have? I've got to get that map back, and I don't wanna lose Trixie. If she knew what I was thinking right now, she'd probably never talk to me again.
Okay... You do what you need to do. I'll see if I can find the map somewhere in the castle.
Trixie!
Oh, there you are! For a minute, I didn't think you were coming back, and that you might be upset with me for some weird reason. But then I remembered – you never get mad at me.
[exhales] Nope! [laughs nervously] Not mad at all! So, the map is probably in the last place you were thinking of. Where was that?
Ooh, great question. I wish you'd asked it, like, right after I did the spell. I don't remember anymore.
[groans] No worries. We'll just take a walk around town. Maybe that'll jog your memory.
Okay, that sounds fun. Ooh!
Did you remember?
Nope! But I did think we could stop for cinnamon nuts while we're out!
Cinnamon... nuts?
That's a good idea!
Yes! I've been craving something sweet since I couldn't have any teacakes this morning.
[exhales] You got this, Starlight...
Woo-hoo! Go, Twilight! you can do it!
Woo-hoo!
Hoo-wee! You solved that triangley thing mighty fast! Uh, does anypony need a purple jewel?
Ooh! Plum or boysenberry?
Don't both those fruits mean purple?
Yes, but one's a lovely purple and one's... well, icky.
[groans] Just put the gem in! We're trying to set a record here!
[cheer-singing] Yay! We solved another clue, 'cause our friendship is so true! Yaaaay, us! Woo-hoo!
"Clarity Cut": Ah, hello, fillies. Uh, how can I help you? Oh, are those cinnamon nuts?
Mmm, yes. I got them from the cart outside. They're delicious. Do you want some?
Have you seen a big table? Magical map on it, sometimes glowing cutie marks shoot out?
"Clarity Cut": [stuttering] A big ta— Uh, no! Uh, why in Equestria would something like that be in here? Ha.
Well, I cast a pretty amazing spell that transported it to the last place I was thinking of, but I might have been thinking about how I'd treat myself to a nice brooch instead.
"Clarity Cut": Ah, well, no huge table here. Uh, are you still interested in that brooch?
Sure!
No! We don't have time for this! Twilight and the girls are gonna be back soon!
But I'm not upset. What's our next stop?
Nope, I ain't seen it.
Are you sure? It's really, really important that we find it. And it might be here because somepony...
...was craving apples.
I'm still craving them. They'd go so well with cinnamon nuts!
[sniffs] Oh, them nuts sure do smell good! Heh-heh.
Granny Smith, please. The table?
[confused muttering] Well, my eyes ain't what they used to be, but I'd know for sure if a big ol' table done appeared out of thin air.
Darn. I could've sworn it'd be at the ice cream parlor, because it was warm in the castle and I thought I wanted ice cream, and— Ooh! Maybe we should check out the Crystal Empire, 'cause Twilight's castle is made out of crystals, so I totally had crystals on my mind.
[tired] Okay, we better start moving if we want to make it to the Crystal Empire.
Are you okay, Starlight? Because you seem a little, uh, what's the word... "lch-bh-ba".
[tired] Nope. I am great.
Did your saddlebag just glow?
[weakly] No.
Gimme!
[weakly] No!
Give it here!
[weakly] Don't!
What's in this?
Cinnamon nuts!
Ooh, I have had a hankerin' for these all day!
"Clarity Cut": Uh, me, too! Ever since that Trixie came by with 'em.
Um, why are they looking at me like that...?
Whoa!
You ruined my teacakes!
"Clarity Cut": You just had to give Twilight those smelly pretzels!
Were they your pretzels? I don't understand.
You don't pay attention when I'm trying to teach you!
Starlight, can you help me, please?!
Uh, Twilight, can you help me, please?
I've seen those symbols! Over here!
You can do it!
Almost there.
I've got the key!
This is it! I'm so impressed.
I'm not. I knew we were the best!
You're the worst!
That seems harsh.
Hiyaaa!
Whoa! Starlight! [panting] I don't know what's happening! Starlight, help!
I'm glad Twilight isn't here to see this.
I wish that Starlight was here to see how strong friendships can be when we trust each other and work together! You've all taught me so much.
Friendship used to make me so queasy, queasy But you made it all so easy, easy Now I don't have to say what I'm thinking You already know without even blinking
You girls are the apple of my eye
The race that doesn't end in a tie
You are the funnel cake at my fair
The warm hug of a fuzzy bear
Best friends until the end of time We'll have each other's backs And let our true selves shine And that's because everything we need is all right here When we're with our team
Starlight! A spark of magic could be very helpful right about now!
[grunting] I can't...!
I simply can't imagine there'd be a day Where I wouldn't want to be walking your way Whatever new problems there may be, may be Our friendship is always the door with the key
You are the jewels in my friendship crown
The sparks that make my world go 'round
We bring the best out, that's our goal There's no telling how far we'll go
Best friends until the end of time We'll have each other's backs And let our true selves shine And that's because everything we need is all right here When we're with our team!
"Ginger Locks": That was lovely. But, um, you know the game isn't over until you turn that key?
Gah!
[panting] Did we do it?
"Ginger Locks": So close. You missed the griffon record by two seconds. Probably shouldn't have sung that song.
Aw, nuts!
Nuts!
You just do whatever you want to do!
Starlight!
And you don't always... [pants] ...have to bring up my dark past!
I didn't know you had one, Granny Smith!
"Clarity Cut": Oh! I just can't believe you sometimes! You make me so mad!
I barely even know you! I don't understand why you're all so mad at me!
[weakly] They're not. I am.
You are?
[sighs] I'm really... mad at you. You lost Twilight's map table. You make jokes like it's no big deal. It's like you don't even care you could get me in a lot of trouble. If we can't find that table, Twilight's never going to trust me again, and the worst part is you didn't even say you were sorry!
I... I-I'm sorry. I had no idea you felt that way.
Yeah! I do! [sighs] But to be fair, I don't know how you could have known. I did a spell and bottled up my anger, but when the bottle broke, it infected these three. I'm really sorry. I used magic so I wouldn't use magic. I should have guessed that would backfire.
"Clarity Cut": Aw, that's all right. It was a slow day.
Yeah, I was gonna get my dentures cleaned before y'all showed up.
Ah! Oh, no! My nut cart!
Yay! My nut cart!
"Clarity Cut": Uh, hang on. Don't you work at the spa?
[gasps] I'm late for my other job! What? I wear many hats.
Not gonna lie. Hearing you and those random ponies say all those terrible things about me wasn't easy. But I needed to hear it. Why didn't you just tell me how you felt?
I didn't want to lose you as a friend.
Pfft! Come on! It'd take a lot more than that to lose me. Our friendship is stronger than a few angry words.
And a magical temper tantrum?
Listen, I'd take that over the boring pony you were becoming any day. The Starlight I love is passionate, lively, and yeah, sometimes angry. Those are my favorite parts of you. That and the fact that you forgive me every time.
[giggles] I'll forgive you if you forgive me.
Deal. [gasps] I remembered what I was thinking about!
You're kidding me.
There's more to it than that. I was thinking about how glad I am to have met you, and I remembered our first meeting – here at the Ponyville spa. And now I just have to teleport it back!
No-no-no-no-no-no-no!
A little to the left. Oh, now rotate it just a hair...
Hey, girls! How'd it go?
[simultaneously] Nothing!
...What?
Let's just say I learned a friendship lesson while you were gone.
You've barely graduated, and you're already taking initiative! [tearing up] Oh... So proud...
We learned about team building and problem solving...
And when not to sing songs!
We certainly had a good time, but I really was looking forward to a spa day, and the Ponyville spa's still open. Anyone?
Sounds good to me!
[simultaneously] I have a coupon!
We'll meet you there! [to Starlight] Quick! Do you have a spell that will make the spa ponies forget that the map table was there?
Haven't you learned anything about using magic to solve your problems?
No. If we learned that lesson, how will we ever have fun?
Oh, Princess Twilight! Everypony in the hospital is so excited for your visit today!
I'm never too busy to visit sick foals. I can't believe a whole class just came down with the horsey hives!
On school picture day, too.
Oh, the poor dears really do need cheering up.
We'll do our best. We'll bring snacks, I'll read to them, and get them gifts!
Food and presents always cheer me up.
We'll see you soon!
Okay, if we want to be at the hospital by lunch, then we have three hours to buy get-well presents, borrow a book from the schoolhouse, [sighing] and pick up treats.
It's a lot, but if we stick to the schedule, I know we can get it all done.
Yeah, knock on wood.
Surprise!
[gasps] Oh, my gosh! How's my favorite niece?
[as Flurry Heart] "I'm good! I was hoping my favowite aunt could watch me for a few houwrs."
Hope you're not too busy.
Busy? [scoffs] Would the best aunt ever be too busy to spend time with this adorable little one?
No!
[blows raspberry] Flurry! I've got a surprise for you!
Just a couple of toys that reminded me of Flurry.
I'm excited to show you I've done some shopping for Flurry Heart.
Oh-ho-ho, you're so sweet. You didn't have to do all that.
I know, but I can't help myself! Best aunt ever! Open this one, Flurry.
We'll just put Flurry's things over here, Twily!
Uh-huh. Totally.
Mashed peas, her favorite.
And diapers. Uh, extra diapers. Oh, and backup extra diapers. Heh.
Mashed peas, her favorite. Wait, did I say that already?
Uh-huh.
Oops.
Oh, and this is the most important thing of all – her Whammy.
I take it Flurry named it?
Yup. If she gets fussy, just give her the Whammy and she'll calm right down.
You getting all this, Twily?
Whammy. Got it. Where are you guys headed, anyway?
You remember my friend from the royal guard, Spearhead?
Honestly, all of your friends' names are very similar.
Well, he has a pop-up art show at the Ponyville Cafe, and we decided to go at the last minute.
We're not exactly art enthusiasts, but we could really use a night out.
You mean "day"?
That's what I said! Isn't that what I said?
Mmm... Mm-mm.
Either way, are you sure you can watch her?
Uh-uh-uh!
Mmmmh...
Have no fear! The best aunt ever has everything under control!
Thanks again, Twily.
Okay, let's grab that Whummy thing and go.
Oh, you want to pretend we're the bears. I suppose we have time for a quick game.
Do we, though?
Hey! All right! [growls like a bear] I'm gonna get ya!
Ugh! [sighs] You should catch her soon, 'cause we've got lots to do! Horsey-hives-covered foals counting on us, remember?
Got it! [growls like a bear] I'm catching up!
Huh?
Uh-oh. Sorry, bug. Did that scare you? It's okay. It's just Auntie Twily!
[blows raspberry] Bleh!
You know, that was a very advanced spell for somepony your age. Looks like you're already taking after your Auntie Twily.
All right, that was pretty adorable. But now...
I know, Spike, we're leaving.
I just have to feed her real quick.
Is this art or... a mistake?
I have no idea. But who cares? We're not changing diapers.
Shining Armor! Cadance! How are the new 'rents? Gimme some hoof. Oh, it is so [grunt] good [grunt] to see you dudes! Hey, thanks for coming.
Of course! We're having a great time! Loving all the... art!
Uh, that's a trash can.
So it is! I knew that!
But hey, who's to say it's not art? Art can be anything that speaks to you. It changed my world. This is my latest piece – "A Thousand Nights in a Hallway".
Wow, I guess nighttime in a hallway can be pretty dark.
[seriously] There is none more dark.
[baffled] Yeah. Totally.
We're just so happy to be here. Usually we're covered in mashed peas by now.
When they said mashed peas were her favorite...
...did they mean her favorite thing to decorate a room with?!
Aw, come on, Spike. That wasn't too bad.
Yeah, and we're only twenty minutes behind schedule.
Twenty minutes?! [exhales] It's fine. We can totally do this.
Okay, we just need to grab some toys and we are outta here.
You want to play, don't you? Well, I know a game that's even more fun! [aside to Spike] And more efficient. [to Flurry Heart] Playing race carts! Ha-ha!
Woo-hoo!
[panting] [out of breath] Hey, nice thinking, Twilight!
Best aunt ever! Hang on, Flurry. The race cart's taking a pit stop.
I'm not a detective, but I think we got a suspect.
Huh?! [sighs] Well, we'd better get to cleaning. We've got no time to waste!
Thanks, but they were organized by color.
[panting] Yes! We gained back a whole five minutes from running here!
Yeah, but if you add that to the forty minutes we were already behind... we're still... fifty five minutes behind!
I mean... [nervous chuckle] Yay, team?
Mm-hmm!
Thanks for helping us out, Cheerilee. Sorry we were late.
Oh, no problem. But I gotta say, I'm surprised you came to me for a book. Don't you have a huge collection?
Yes, but—
Sorry, one second.
I didn't think the foals would be interested in The Unabridged History of Amulets in pony Latin.
Yeah, it was good you came to me. How about the complete collection of Ponyville Fables and Stables?
Mmm, too long.
Alien Alicorns vs. Space Pirates?
Well, the science there is preposterous—
How about Burnferno, Warrior from Within? It's about a handsome dragon warrior who slays evildoers with his breath and his snappy comebacks!
[giggles] Let's borrow that for you and keep looking.
Eh.
What else?
Uh, how about Gusty the Great?
Ooh, that was one of my favorites when I was a filly! We'll take it!
Ta-da!
Cheerilee, I am so, so sorry! I didn't even hear her leave!
There, all clean.
Great. Now I'll just write it up again...! [slightly muffled] With my mouth.
Ehh...
Feast your eyes. This one's called "A Kitchen Guard's Journey"!
[unsure] Oh...
This reminds me of the time Flurry got into the chocolate pudding, and we found little chocolate hoofprints all over the carpet.
That took forever to clean up! But remember how cute her little face looked when we caught her?
Yeah. She was like, [imitating Flurry Heart] "Uh-oh!"
Whoa, art is so evocative! I wasn't even going for that memory! Score!
Honestly, Twilight, I don't even want to tell you how late we are. Should I just cancel our visit to the hospital?
What?! Cancel?! We can't cancel, Spike! The sick foals are counting on us! And the B.A.E. would never throw in the towel like that!
B.A.E.?
"Best Aunt Ever"? Besides, this errand is gonna be different.
How do you figure that?
Because Flurry can play with the Cake twins and stay out of trouble! Best aunt ever!
Wonderful! They're friends already!
Huh. I shouldn't have doubted you.
Thanks! Wait, you doubted me?
Spike, you watch Flurry. I'll take care of everything else. [quickly, to Pinkie Pie] Hi, Pinkie! How's it going? I need to pick up the cupcakes for the foals at the hospital! And can you do apology treats?
I'm good. Here they are. Of course I can!
Do you still have a giant file on everypony's favorite treat?
In my secret party planning cave!
BRB!
Hee-hee! Remind me to tell you later how amazing you are. Cheerilee?
Eh. I am pretty awesome.
Cherry oatmeal cookies with yellow sprinkles.
Great! Can you write "sorry" on them?
I've got a stamp for that!
Hey, you guys! No need to fight! Uh... Hang on! I'm sure there's another one! Ugh, no, not this one... Oh, that's cute...
Hold on, sweetie. We'll play in a second.
The salespony at the toy store...
Apple strudel cupcake with caramel drizzle!
Oh, no. You're making the same face Cheerilee made. Pinkie, remind me what your favorite treat is.
Mmm... The sampler platter.
We'll take three of those.
Uh... Twilight?
Out of the question! We are not cancelling! It's going to be okay! It has to be okay! It's been so terrible so far it can't possibly end up— Oh...
Uh, sorry.
[sighs] No, I needed it.
I was just gonna say, we're here.
And we're only four-and-a-half minutes late!
Four and a half?!
[reading] "...and while nopony had ever tried to reach Cloudsdale on hoof, Gusty the Great was not deterred! She and her unicorn warriors marched up the hill. But suddenly, they encountered..."
[gasps] What?! What was it?!
"It was the treacherous Grogar..."
"...and Gusty could tell he was ready for battle. Gusty called out to the unicorn warriors—" Ow! Not right now, Flurry. These foals really want to hear this.
[reading] "'We can fight Grogar together!' And the unicorn warriors shot magical beams into the clouds that wove into one! The beam, stronger than a thousand armies, shined down!"
[reading] "It wrapped around Grogar and pulled him to the ground! 'Don't let him escape!', yelled Gusty!"
Say 'ah'.
Ahhh—
—aaargh!
[reading] "Grogar was strong, for fear gave him power, and he broke through the bonds!"
I know! So good, right?
Twilight, look up!
Spike, you're floating. You're floating!
So are you!
Flurry, honey, you need to stop this. Put us down, please.
Twilight, look out!
Nopony panic! Everything's gonna be okay!
Oh, I can't keep up with her!
Oh, yeah, where's her Snoozle?!
Her what?!
You know, her Whacky Whompy thing? The snail? Where is it? Cadance said it calms her down.
I don't see it!
Flurry Heart! Put us all down this instant!
Is everypony okay?
Flurry, that was very, very bad! You could have hurt somepony!
Oh, Flurry, I didn't mean to—
Sweetie, you don't have to be scared. It's just me, see?
You're scared of me. Because I yelled at you like a big scary bear. Flurry, I'm so sorry. I've been a terrible aunt today. All you wanted to do was play, and I've barely been able to pay attention to you. None of this is your fault. It's mine. So much for being the best aunt ever. But I hope you know how much I love you.
Oh, I take it you forgive me?
Thanks, Flurry. How about we head home? After we find your Whammy, of course.
[tearing up] This one kind of reminds me of Flurry's hair.
[tearing up] Uh-huh. And this one reminds me of Flurry too.
How so?
It's small... like her! I-I can't do this anymore! Spearhead, this has been great, but—
Say no more. My art has always spoken to me about what I love. But knowing that it spoke to you about what you love speaks to me.
What...?
Go to her.
Flurry?! Where's our little foal?! Ah! Oh, we missed you so much!
But it looks like you had a great time without us.
Actually, not so much. Flurry got into some mischief, but it wasn't her fault. I shouldn't have agreed to watch her with such a jam-packed schedule. It was too much to juggle. But Flurry taught me an important lesson today. It turns out being the best aunt ever isn't about spending the most time with your niece, but spending quality time with her. And she taught me a really cool bear game, so I guess I learned two things.
Well, we definitely should've given you more of a heads up.
Yes! From now on, we'll give you plenty of notice.
Ohh, that would be great.
Hey, what are you doing next Tuesday?
For dinner, not to babysit.
[chuckle] I'll have to check with Spike, but I think we're free.
Where is Spike, anyway?
[reading] "The dashing dragon warrior breathed a scorching flame from his snout, then chuckled to himself as he flew into the sunset. 'If you can't stand the heat, don't fight a dragon!'"
"Peach Fuzz": Hey, you kinda look like him!
Thank you! Okay, now who wants more cake?
So in closing, earning a rocktorate in rock studies from the Equestrian Institute of Rockology is no easy feat. I'm proud of each and every one of you. Uh... each of... No, just you, actually.
Go, Maud! Woo-hoo! Number one! Number one!
Fillies and gentlecolts... and is that magnesium-rich basalt? It is my honor to present our vale-rock-torian, Maud Pie. Excuse me. Doctor Pie.
Whoo! Doctor Pie! Doctor Pie! ..."Rock-tor" Pie?
[deadpan] I'm Maud.
Yeah, you are! Brilliant speech! Encore! Encore!
[deadpan] There's more, Pinkie. I'm Maud. [flips index card] Pie. Thank you.
You are so welcome! Brilliant speech! Encore! Encore! Encore!
[long high-pitched squeal, rapidly] You're moving to Ponyville! We'll live together and get bunk beds and I'll make us fuzzy slippers that say "Best Sister Friends Forever", although I probably can't fit all those words on a slipper, so maybe just "BSFF", but we don't have to decide right now because we'll be together all the time since when it comes to Ponyville, the doctor is in!
[deadpan] Slow down, Pinkie Pie.
Yooooouuuuu'rrrrrrrreeeeeeee mmmmmmmmmmooooooooovvvvvvvviiiiiiiinnnnnnnnnggggggg tttttttooooooo Pooooooooooonnnnnnnnyyyyyyyyvvvvvvviiiiiiilllllllleeeeeeeee....
[deadpan] I'm not definitely moving to Ponyville.
[deadpan] I'm also considering Ghastly Gorge.
[laughs] Classic Maud sense of humor! You should do stand-up!
[deadpan] I do. But that wasn't a joke.
[gasps] Ghastly Gorge? That terrible, awful, no-fun, all-alone canyon in the middle of nowhere?
[deadpan] There or Ponyville.
But Ponyville is so "eee-hee-hee-hee-hee!" and Ghastly Gorge is so "Blegh!"
[deadpan] It's a rock-based decision.
But what about BSFFs?
[deadpan] That's why I'm giving Ponyville a chance.
Phew! So all I have to do is prove Ponyville has better rocks than Ghastly Gorge? Challenge accepted. We'll drop your stuff off at my place, and then hold onto your world, 'cause it's about... to... get... rocked!
[deadpan] Okay.
Ghastly Gorge may have rocks, but our gem cave rocks!
Huh? Huh? Oh, and look! You'll never know who you'll see!
[gasps] Maud, darling! It's lovely to see you again! Oh! Congratulations on your rocktorate. What are you doing now?
[deadpan] Talking to you.
Oh, y— Right. [laughs, clears throat] Well, if your trained eye happens to see a chartreuse gem, I'm desperate to find one.
[deadpan] I found one.
Oh, you're an absolute darling! This will surely make my gown stand out at Countess Coloratura's album release party. Do you know how rare this is?
Just another day in Ponyville!
[deadpan] That's actually a really common gem.
Huh?
[deadpan] These are all really common gems.
They are? Uh, I mean, heh, come on! Of course they are! That's why I didn't bring you here to impress you! I wanted to make sure you had a chance to, heh, say "hello" to your old pal... Spike!
[deadpan] Hello, Spike.
Way to go, Maud! Cross that off the to-do list! Y'know what I'm sayin'? Check! Now, let's get moving, 'cause I'm about to show you something that'll make you yell "All right!"
[deadpan] All right.
See? Ha-ha!
Ta-da! It's a castle... made of rocks! Whaaaat?! Did I just blow your mind? I think I just blew your mind.
[deadpan] A lot of structures are made from rocks, Pinkie. They're a very stable building material.
But this place grew out of nowhere after a magical key-build gem followed a rainbow and buried itself in the ground! I mean, have you ever seen rocks like this?
[deadpan] Yes.
No, you haven't!
[deadpan] We literally just saw hundreds of them in the gem cave.
But... but... Oh, look at those rocks!
[deadpan] Those are sting-bush seed pods.
So they are! But, uh... look at that rock! It's even got four smaller rocks around it like legs!
[deadpan] That's a tortoise.
[sighs] I guess you won't be moving to Ponyville after all. Those rocks at Ghastly Gorge don't know how lucky they are to have you.
[deadpan] Actually, rocks aren't the only reason I'm considering Ponyville.
You said it's a rock-based decision.
[deadpan] I'm obviously passionate about exotic rocks, but I've always studied them... alone. I could handle some less exciting rocks if it meant I'd have somepony to talk to besides Boulder.
[gasps] Are you saying you want... a friend?!
[deadpan] I wouldn't mind one.
[deadpan] It isn't hard to meet somepony I like. It's finding somepony who gets me.
I get you.
[deadpan] You're my sister. It's different.
Maud, you are the best! You never know when the lightning of friendship will strike. Somepony could come barreling through that door at this very moment and become your best friend!
Y'know, I really thought somepony was gonna come barreling through that—
[deadpan] Uh.
Oh, my fault! Totally my fault! Are you okay? I should've been watching where I was going, and— You look really familiar. Have we met before?
[deadpan] Yes.
I knew it!
Whaaaaat?!
No, no, don't tell me. Um...
Yeah. See, I was really hoping you'd tell me while I pretended to remember.
[deadpan] I traveled Equestria for my rocktorate dissertation.
Psst! Do you know a lot about rocks?
[deadpan] Yes.
Have you ever come across some kind of super-powerful stone that can store the cutie mark magic of... I don't know... an entire village?
[deadpan] Yep. In the big cave.
[laughs] Hey, I got an idea. Let's not tell anypony that part where you maybe, for sure, accidentally helped Starlight enslave a town! [laughs, seriously] Tell nopony!
[deadpan] It's not like she's enslaved anypony lately.
[through the side of her mouth] Offer to help.
[deadpan] What?
Offer to help!
You wanna help?
[deadpan] Do I?
Of course you do! Go!
[deadpan] Okay.
[squeals] They're totally gonna be best friends and then Maud will choose Ponyville, and we'll get to wear BSFF slippers!
[deadpan] Rocks take on different properties when interacting with magic. With the right stone, you could rule all of Equestria if you wanted to.
You're messing with me.
[deadpan] Am I?
[laughs, sighs] So other than rocks, what else are you into?
[deadpan] Minerals. Plate tectonics. Oh, and stand-up comedy, of course.
I like... kites.
[deadpan] Kites are cool.
The trick with an S.L.K. is not to make the spars too heavy. But if they're too light, you've got no ballast and then good luck tacking against the A.O.I.! [beat] I really like kites.
[deadpan] They're starting to grow on me.
Pizza delivery! Oh! Maud and Starlight? You're here too? Whoa-ho-ho! What a coincidence! 'Cause I was just, y'know, delivering this pizza to, um... you!
So how's it going?
Uh, just hanging out—
Hey! You could use this time to bond and talk about feelings! For example, do you feel like you're becoming friends?
Um... I feel... like I don't want to talk about feelings?
Great! I'll go next. I feel like I love that you two are becoming best friends! I mean, your friendship could be the friendship that makes Maud move to Ponyville! No pressure, Starlight. Um, hello? Where'd you two go?
[deadpan] Sorry about my sister. There's no half-excited with her.
Oh, I know. But she always calms down. Eventually.
Why do you find rocks so fascinating?
[deadpan] Each one has a different story to tell. Like Boulder here. This tells me he's over two thousand years old. [to Boulder] You don't look a day over six hundred.
Wow. You can tell that from a line?
[deadpan] I didn't get a rocktorate because I can shred on guitar like nopony else.
[deadpan] Another reason I like rocks – they don't exclude you if you're... different than other ponies.
They're beautiful and strong, but they don't judge you or make you feel less than in any way. I think I'm starting to like rocks, too.
It's hollow?
[deadpan] It's granite. Hollow granite is highly unusual.
Wow! Have you ever seen anything like this?
[deadpan] No. And that's unusual. For me.
There you are! I thought you went your separate ways but you can't imagine how happy I am to find you both together and to witness one of your firsts as friends!
First time discovering an underground cavern! [squeals] I can't wait 'til you're old and eating pistachios together and telling your grand-foals about this! Oh, no! They're not bonding!
I got an idea!
[exaggerated] Whooaa! I'm tripping on a rock at this very moment! And now I'm falling down!
[exaggerated] Oh, no! My accidental clumsiness has trapped us here! Where you'll be forced to bond until we're rescued.
Oh, we won't have to wait for that. There's gotta be a spell that—
[deadpan, to Boulder] Get us out of here, boy.
Boulder, that was awesome!
[deadpan] No. That was sandstone.
More sand than stone, apparently.
I'm thinking you wear these around your neck at all times so I don't lose you again, you sillies! That way, I can track your progress as friends!
Ooh! And tomorrow, we can have a friendship brunch! What's your favorite kind of omelette cupcake?! [hushed] Mine's jalapeño red velvet!
Yeah, um, I-I don't know if I can make it.
You'll change your minds when you smell the yummy food! Come on!
Oops.
Tomorrow's brunch is going to be the scrumptiest, brunchiest, munchiest brunch ever!
[deadpan] Yeah. About that...
[deadpan] Zero times.
Oh, Maud, don't be so hard on yourself! You've got the best friendship-maker in Ponyville on the case! I'll be by your side the whole time! Speaking of which, your bell fell off, silly!
[deadpan] Pinkie Pie, I appreciate what you're trying to do, but—
Buuuuuut?
[deadpan] [sighs] Never mind.
Don't worry, Maud. When you see this brunch, you'll realize everything's gonna be okay! And then, I have amazing bonding activities planned for the next seventeen days! You and Starlight will be besties in no time! Goodnight! [kisses] [clap, clap] [snoring] ...Cupcake omelette...
Friendship brunch!
[deadpan] [voiceover] Pinkie Pie. Thank you for trying so hard to help me make friends. But my decision has to be rock based. And Ghastly Gorge has such great rocks, I won't even have time for friends. It's better this way. Sorry it didn't work out. Maud.
Maud! Wait!
Maud! [tearing up] Maud...
Starlight, wake up!
[yelps] Kites!
Huh? Oh. If this is about brunch, I-I, uh... You know what? Jalapeño red velvet omelettes sound gross. I-I just can't.
Maud left in the middle of the night!
Oh. I guess Ghastly Gorge really does have the best rocks.
[sniffs] Why couldn't you two just be friends?
Pinkie Pie, I like Maud.
You do?
Yeah. She's weird!
Hey!
No, in a good way! She sees the world in a totally different way than anypony I've ever met. She accepts me for who I am. She taught me that a rock is never just a rock, and she could make anything funny. We never had to say it, but we got each other.
You really were becoming friends?
I think so, but you kinda sorta... got in the way.
[gasps] You're right, too harsh. Let's go with... You ruined everything all the time?
Mmmmh, that's worse. What I'm trying to say is—
[tearing up] I have to go!
[deadpan] Sigh.
[deadpan] Emerald jasper? This must be my lucky day.
[sniffs] [licks] [chews] Maud tracks!
[deadpan] Hello, Pinkie Pie. I found emerald jasper.
Are you okay, Maud?! That eel almost ate you!
[deadpan] What eel?
[deadpan] You didn't need to come. I'm having a great time on my own.
[deadpan] I even made a new friend.
Is it a rock?
[deadpan] Yes.
[shrieks] Maud!
[deadpan] I don't belong in Ponyville. It only proved I'm better off all by myself. Like I always have been.
Don't say that! It was all my fault! I— [shrieks] I thought I knew everything about making friends, but I didn't even know my own sister! I forced you to do things my way, but my way isn't your way!
[deadpan] This way.
Exactly!
[deadpan] No. This way.
Maud, I thought you couldn't make a friend without my help, but it turns out you couldn't make a friend with my help. I underestimated you, and I'm sorry.
[deadpan] I know you did it out of love. You're my best sister friend forever.
[deadpan] And you melt my heart more easily than sodium-rich plagioclase feldspar.
[sniffs] I don't know what that means, but please please please please please give Ponyville another chance! But more importantly, give me another chance... to leave you alone.
[deadpan] What do you think, Boulder?
You're back!
[deadpan] Mm-hmm.
For good?
[deadpan] Mm-hmm. This doesn't mean we need to start talking about feelings, does it?
Heh. No way.
[deadpan] Maybe after this we could decorate my new place.
Totally! Where is it?
[deadpan] Well, it's not in Ponyville. More like Ponyville-adjacent.
It's perfect.
Sorry, sorry, I'm leaving! I promise. I'm not even here. Aah, you're wearing the slippers! Okay, now I'm really leaving. Buh-bye!
Oh! Be careful!
[gasps] Are you okay, Angel?
I told you that entering the Ponyville Parkour Contest was a dangerous idea. You just rest here, and I'll have you all fixed up in no time. Oh, dear. I'm all out of bunny foot braces. I think we need to pay a visit to Dr. Fauna.
[straining] Oh, I was sure she would be here today.
Hello? [knocks on door] Is anypony there?
Dr. [muffled] Fluttershy? Oh, am I glad to see you!
[straining] I wish I could say the same, but the door's stuck, so I, um... can't see you.
Dr. Ohhhh. Somebunny hurt his foot. Let's bandage that up so he can get back home. I'd like to keep him overnight, but as you can see, my place is just bursting with animals! [exhale] I don't think I can take in even one more critter right now!
Fluttershy and Dr. Oh, dear.
[gasps] You really have your hooves full here.
Dr. [sighs] This place is like a zoo! Then again, it's normally like that, but still... I can't keep up!
Dr. Oh. Now, does my favowite wittle bunny want a carrot pop?
Dr. [sighs] That's okay. I think the goats ate all of them anyway.
I just can't believe all these poor little animals are hurt. What happened?
Dr. I'm flummoxed! Every day, there's more and more animals on my doorstep. Most of them just have minor ailments – hurt wings, stuffy noses, and such. But the trouble is even after they're all healed up, I can't seem to get these comfy critters to leave!
Oh, dear.
They do seem to have made themselves right at home here.
Dr. I wonder why they chose to flock to my office. It just doesn't make sense.
Don't be silly, Dr. Fauna. You're the best vet pony in Equestria. At least that's what I've been telling everypony.
Dr. Uh... you did what?
Oh, no. Do you suppose it's my fault? I'm so sorry. I didn't mean for this to happen. I just know animals feel safe and happy under your care.
Dr. Normally, I don't mind if a snake wants to slither in or a raccoon needs a rest, but now this place is so full, I have no space to treat any injured animals.
That is a big problem... that I'm going to fix for you! I already have the perfect solution that'll make the critters happy and give you more space. Then you'll have all your ducks in a row!
Dr. The sooner you fix it, the better!
I'm on it!
I want to thank you all for rushing right over when I called.
Dr. Fauna needs my help with a serious problem.
A friendship problem?
No. Her vet clinic is a bit... maybe, um... overrun with adorable critters in dire need of a safe place to lay their heads, and... they don't have anywhere to go!
Oh, that's just awful.
I know!
Yeah. Dr. Fauna's always fixin' Winona up when she ain't feelin' too fine, so helpin' her out is A-okay by me.
Hah! Yeah!
You can count on us!
[simultaneously] Okie-dokie-lokie!
[simultaneously] Okay!
Oh, that's great news! Because it means you'll all be helping me with something special, too. Something that's been a dream of mine for a long time.
Oh, goody! Is your dream to make a bouncy castle shaped like a gigantic bundt cake?
Um, no. Not exactly.
Huh. Just me then.
So? What is it, Fluttershy? Spill!
My dream is to build a real animal sanctuary.
A beautiful habitat where every animal – whether sick or scared or even just lonely, feathered or furry, scaly or slimy – every critter would be welcome. My sanctuary can be the one place in Equestria they call home 'til they feel ready to take on the world.
Wow, Fluttershy! I've never heard you speak with such conviction.
Oh! That was exquisite!
Pretty awesome.
Oh, thank you, everypony. You all taught me so much about building my confidence over the years. It's because of your friendship that I finally feel able to make my dream project a reality. But I can't build the sanctuary alone. Will you join me?
I'm happy to offer my extra hooves to ya. Huh. But come to think of it, I actually know a filly who'd be more help than I would. She's a friend of mine from Winona's sheep-herdin' competitions – Wrangler! Heh. She's an expert in animal enclosures.
How lovely!
Ooh-ooh-ooh! I know somepony, too! Hard Hat is the best construction pony in Ponyville. He can build anything you could ever, ever, ever want!
Is it you, Rarity?
[chuckles] No! No. Um, I was referring to the premiere interior designer of the Canterlot elite – Dandy Grandeur. He helped me when I was setting up my Canterlot boutique. I know that he'd be thrilled to work with you.
Wow, everypony! Thank you! I can't wait to meet all of them and hear their ideas. We're right on track to building the most wonderful sanctuary in Equestria!
Thank you, Rupert. Ahem. It's wonderful that you all could join me to discuss the Ponyville sanctuary project. My friends have so many nice things to say about each of your talents. This is a big project, so I'm happy to have such experienced ponies working on it with me.
Rarity has impeccable taste in design and friends, so I can't wait to work with you, you know?
I-I think so.
Yee-haw! I'm just lookin' forward to helpin' ya out, ma'am! And the animals.
Of course.
So, uh, Pinkie Pie said you drew up some blueprints?
Um, not exactly. It's more of a dream board.
Hmmm, that sure doesn't look like an animal hospital.
Well, that's because it's not. It's a sanctuary. A place that is safe but not restrictive. Cozy but natural. A place where the animals can come and go as they please.
So, can you build it?
Wrangler, Hard Hat, [chuckling nervously] Uhhh...
I want the sanctuary to have an open floor plan. No walls. More like an enclosure that melts into the trees. With a gate in the back. That way, the animals can return to the forest right when they feel ready.
Sneaky! I like it!
You know, uh, I designed the Ponyville Hospital. I could do the exact same thing right here. I still have the blueprints. Though it'll take a while to clear all these trees.
But I don't want to clear the trees. I want to use them.
Are you sure? What you're talking about doesn't really seem like a cohesive structure. Or any structure I'm familiar with.
Critters don't live the same way ponies do. I know this is unconventional, but that's because we're trying to do something that's never been done before. I really believe it'll work.
Hmm. All right then. I'll see what I can do.
See, Fluttershy? Whatever you want.
Good.
[to Steam Roller and Jack Hammer] I know she thinks she knows what's best, but once she sees how much better it works with these plans, she'll thank us.
Uh-huh, yup.
Which one do you like for the window treatments?
Ooooh! Loving the print on those!
Um, not to be rude, but there must be some mistake. We have no need for curtains at the sanctuary.
And whyever not?
Everything is gonna look natural in the animal habitats, not like it was made for ponies.
Drab? You're calling the colors of beautiful trees drab?
Exactly! The natural look is not in right now. This is better. Trust me.
I appreciate your input, but I just know the animals would be happiest with dirt brown pillows and leaf green accents.
I'll... look into it.
Thank you.
...Sometimes they need me to steer them away from it. Especially if it's dirt brown.
And right there, we got your standard sheep-travelin' cage. Fits two critters, dependin' on size.
Hmm.
Uh, what is it, sugarcube?
I'm looking for something less like a cage and more like a nice hug. Maybe if we lose that part.
Uh... Well then, it wouldn't be a cage.
Exactly! Ooh! This is the perfect base for a little nest. I'll take a bunch of these and anything else the animals can burrow into.
You sure you don't want somethin' more secure for the critters?
She does have a point there. You wouldn't want a bunny wanderin' into the wrong cave, would ya?
No! No cages. I want to give the animals the freedom to come and go. It's the only way they'll feel comfortable.
Well, she's the boss.
Hey, whaddya think, Fluttershy? I told ya we'd be fast. Almost finished with the building already.
The color just pops, you know?
Quite roomy inside, really. And very safe.
Don't keep us waiting, Fluttershy. Do you love it, or do you love it?
I... I... [angry] I don't love it! This is not going to work at all! A giraffe can't fit through this door! With these curtains blocking the light, how are the birds gonna sing in the sunshine? And this is the opposite of a nice hug! I know you all worked hard, but none of you did anything I asked for!
[scoffs] That's not true. We used the trees just like you asked!
And that curtain fabric is organic! It's got natural fibers!
And I added pillows inside my cages. That should count as feelin' like a hug!
I may not know much about construction or interior design or wrangling, but I am an expert at one thing: the care of animals! And what animals need is a sanctuary, not this!
Maybe your "vision" wasn't all that it was cracked up to be, you know?
My vision isn't the problem here! I told you all exactly what I wanted, and none of you listened to me! So while I appreciate your efforts, I no longer require your services!
Dr. Hello! Oh, the animals have been so excited for the sanctuary, they couldn't wait any longer! [laughs] Can we take a look inside?
Dr. Oh, I'm so sorry, Fluttershy.
No. I'm the one who should be sorry. This didn't go at all like I had imagined.
Sleep tight, little one. It's going to be okay. I promise.
Now, now, every mouse has gotta wait their turn.
[sighs] I'm so sorry. I thought I'd have a beautiful sanctuary for you all to stay in by now. But I put my trust in the wrong ponies.
Dr. It's okay, Fluttershy. I know you did your best, but we can make this work here. It'll be a bit, uh... tight. Heh. But with your help, we'll have these patients back on their paws in no time, even without a sanctuary.
No!
I won't give up! These animals need me! And I'm gonna solve this once and for all! If this little lady can crawl all the way here from Western Equestria, I can find a way to build her a safe place to rest!
Oh! [joins in laughter] Oops. Everyone back to sleep now.
Thanks for coming, everypony. As you know, building the sanctuary didn't go quite as planned.
I know, right? Who would've guessed that Hard Hat wouldn't build whatever you want?
I never would've invited Dandy to help if I thought he'd act in such a manner.
[sighs] And Wrangler sure made a fool outta me, too. I'm sorry, Fluttershy.
It's okay. You were all just trying to help. But I know that letting all the experts go was the right call.
So what are you gonna do now?
Try again. I'm going to rebuild the sanctuary and do it my way this time.
All right, Fluttershy!
[simultaneously] You show 'em, filly!
[simultaneously] That's the spirit!
How about putting an awesome flying course for the birds right there?
And a carrot cake stand here?
Ooh, a library cave?
Everypony, stop! I appreciate you sharing your thoughts, but I need everypony to respect mine. Other ponies may be experts in their fields, but animals are my field of expertise. And if I say this is what I want, then this is what needs to happen! Oh, um, for the animals of course.
Wow! We should call you "Flutterbold" now!
To get things back on track, I called in a favor from an old friend. He'll be here any minute.
I thought you said no more experts.
This is one expert I know I can trust to put the animals first. Plus there's nopony better at building.
[laughs] I heard somepony needs construction help fer them critters!
Big Daddy McColt! [to the others] We met each other back when the map called me and Fluttershy to the Smokey Mountains!
And he certainly knows his stuff when it comes to buildings and caring for animals.
Well, shucks. Let's not stand around talkin' about it. Let's build us a sanctuary!
Are you ready?
Dr. Oh, I'm more excited than a beaver in a log pile!
Okay, you can open your eyes! Welcome to Sweet Feather Sanctuary, a safe and cozy retreat for everycreature!
Dr. [gasps] Oh, Fluttershy! This is amazing!
Now you should have plenty of room at the clinic. Because once you've treated them, they can recover here! With my help, of course. It's okay, Lola. We all move at our own pace. Sometimes, all we need to do is believe in our dreams. And when we finally reach our goal, we'll know that it was worth what it took to get there, because the view will be even better than you imagined!
[panting] [muttering] Oh, I have to... Oh! I can't believe the winter-to-spring transition is almost here!
Ohhh. I like that. [sighs] I'm going to have to relabel all my binders. Right after we finish... everything! We still have so much to do! Oh, my bustles and bows! Rarity, did we—?
Already hemmed, ruched, and cut, my dear.
[sighs] Oh. Rarity, no reason to panic, but, um, we seem to be temporarily low! And when I say "temporarily low", I mean "completely out of"—!
The baby blue sapphires? They arrived this morning.
Oh. Heh. Wonderful. [sighs] Oh! What about the design for the—?!
And done!
Wow. You are good. And you've really outdone yourself this time! The Morning Sunshine Tulip Frock is gorgeous!
Ooh, thank you. Look, I know you're worried about something slipping between the cracks. But with your managerial skills and my fabulous designs, we have everything covered.
You're right. You're right. There are no cracks.
Would you be a dear and fetch me some vermilion satin from the back? And I'll start on the Eternal Elegance Empire Silhouette evening gown.
My most certain pleasure!
Rarity, we're running low on vermilion satin.
I... I can order more!
[continues bawling] And this is when we pretended we were storybook princesses. And here we pretended we were on a dangerous yet stylish safari. [sobs] So many wonderful memories! [sobs, blows nose, resumes sobbing] Not to put too fine a point on it, but... [bawls harder] Sweetie Belle loves playing dress-up. I miss her so much!
Then why don't you go visit her?
[through tears] I wish I... could, but... between... running... three stores and the spring-sition... I couldn't possibly...
But you've already done almost all the work. I can handle the rest.
B-B-But... but...
Rarity, go. I have everything well in hoof.
[sobs, calmer] Mm, point taken. [excitedly] I am going to visit my sister!
Way to immediately turn that around.
We can spend the whole day together! And we can do all her favorite things!
I'm sure she'd love that.
Oh, Sassy, thank you!
Of course! Now get out of here!
I'm going! I'm going! Hang on, sis! I'm coming!
Excuse us!
Comin' through!
Cutie Mark Crusaders mid-mission here!
That was fun! Let's do it again!
Scoot, we've got a job to do.
Later?
All right, Chipcutter. We've done our part. The rest is up to you.
You really think I have it in me to be a sculptor?
Yup!
But why?
Because you said you weren't good at anything except getting in trouble for making sculptures out of your lunch, right?
Yeah. I can't help it. When I look at my sandwich, it's like it's just asking me to... turn it into a dragon.
Well, what is this slab asking you to turn it into?
Hmmm... I see...
Wow! T-That's incredible! It looks just like us!
We knew you had it in you, Chip!
This is way better than sandwich sculpting!
Chip, we're proud of you.
I finally got my cutie mark!
Woo-hoo! All right!
Yes!
Way to go!
[sighs] Not a bad way to start a day.
Not a bad way at all! Helpin' ponies is just about my favorite thing to do.
Another satisfied client!
Mm-hmm!
So who's up next?
Pretty sure it's Zipporwhill. She needs help reconnecting with her cutie mark – three puppy paw prints.
When is she swinging by?
Well, I think she should be arriving right about...
...now.
Wow. You are good.
Come on in, Zipporwhill.
Okay, so what seems to be the problem, exactly?
It's my puppy, Ripley. We used to be so close. In fact, I got my cutie mark the day I found him and took him home. But now, it's like he wants nothing to do with me.
Don't you worry. You've come to the right place! The Cutie Mark Crusaders are on the job!
Trust us. Before you know it, you and your puppy will be back to bein' besties!
You have the CMC guarantee! No matter what it takes, we promise you'll have our full attention.
[singsongy] Guess who's here to spend the whole day with her little sister?!
Mmmm!
Rarity, what are you doing here?
I am here to spend the day with you! I'm so excited, I could practically faint! You don't happen to have a fainting couch in here, do you?
No!
Oh, pfft, of course not. It's a treehouse! That would be très gauche!
Right... Well, I sure am happy to see you, and spending the day with you does sound like a lot of fun, but... I'm kind of right in the middle of something important. I have responsibilities and...
Oh.
Go on, Sweetie Belle. We've got this covered. How often do you get to spend time with your sister?
Yeah! Go have fun.
You sure you two can handle our client here?
"Client"? Oh, that is so adorable!
Uh, thanks? I think?
Are you sure you two got this?
We have it handled.
Oh, my! Look at this wall of satisfied customers! [gasps] You girls really have come a long way.
Well, all right then. [to the other Crusaders] But, lemme know if you need me or run into any trouble.
Ooh! So fun!
[indignantly] What?
[giggles] It's just I know how much you love these puppet shows.
I did.
Oh, it's just like old times! You, me, greasy popcorn. It's like no time has passed at all.
Ooh! Ooh! Ooh! It's your favorite part!
What's the matter, darling?
I, um, guess I just prefer black box experimental theater.
What?! Since when?
[sighs] I dunno. It's no big deal. This is great.
Okay. We're here! Ta-da! [laughs, clears throat] Aren't you excited to be back here again? Do I know my baby sister, or do I know my baby sister?
Uh... Yeah... Where is "here" exactly?
Oh, pfft! Stop being so silly! You know this is your favorite ice cream shop!
Oh. Right. From when I was a little filly.
Huh. I remember it being much bigger.
Well, go ahead. I know you're dying to dig in.
Well?
[laughs nervously, sighs] That was, uh... one tasty bite. Still a little hungry, though.
[gasps] We can get another sundae! Chocolate with rainbow sprinkles, perhaps?
I was thinking something more like a salad.
A salad? When did you get so practical?
Oh, um... I guess another scoop would be fine!
[gasps] One more Filly Clown Surprise, please!
Hey, Ripley!
Look at me! Over here!
I know you must be bored, darling. This is a very long line for one of Twisty Pop's balloons.
But just be patient. We'll get you your favorite balloon bouquet, and it'll all be worth it.
[baby noises] Who's a good puppy? Who's a good puppy?! You're the good puppy!
Now come on, puppy-wuppy! Get the bally-wally!
Come on, Ripley! Like this!
Good Scootaloo! See?
[sighs] It's not working.
Maybe if the ball tasted better?
I don't think that that's it, Scoot.
Doesn't look like it's going so well. I'm just gonna do a quick check with the CMCs.
Well, I guess duty calls, and-and you, you have that now...
What?
Oh nothing, nothing. Go on.
Hey, Sweetie Belle. How's your day with Rarity going?
Well, it's not exactly great...
What do you mean?
I don't know. It's like Rarity doesn't even know me anymore.
I wish we could say our day is going better.
But we can't.
Seems like Zipporwhill's puppy doesn't want anything to do with her.
Hmmm. I see what you mean... [gasps] You know, it's an awfully big puppy...
Sweetie Belle, hurry! He's making it!
Gotta go...
[gasps] I know just what to do with this!
And pose!
And pose!
Love the camera!
Hate the camera.
Love it again!
Sweetie Belle, you did "hate the camera" for all these shots! [sighs] Let's do it again.
No!
Come on, Zipporwhill, you can do this!
W-What do you mean, no?
Rarity, this is hard for me to say, but... um...
Sweetie Belle, what is it? You've been acting weird all day. You used to love doing these things with me.
That's just it! I used to! That's not who I am anymore!
This isn't who I am! My cutie mark must be for something else, because my puppy just doesn't love me anymore! Hmph!
But it is you! You love puppet shows and dressing up and taking silly photos and tiny little clown-shaped ice creams!
Really?! If you still think I like doing this stuff, then maybe you don't know me at all!
[sobbing] I can't believe Sweetie Belle talked to me like that. [indignant] And after everything I did to set up a whole day of doing her favorite things! I mean, accusing me of not knowing her?! I know her better than anypony! Um, thank you, Twisty, but the hard truth is, my sister is being unappreciative right now! And I'm going to go and give her a piece of my mind!
Hey, Zipporwhill. What are you doing here? Where are Apple Bloom and Scootaloo?
They're with my puppy. He seems to like them better than me anyway.
Now, I'm sure that's not true.
I think that might be your problem right there! Come on!
[groans] Find Zipporwhill, Ripley!
Woof, woof! It's Zipporwhill! Woof?
[sighs] It's hopeless.
Sweetie Belle!
Zipporwhill! [sighs] We're sorry we haven't figured this out yet.
Don't worry, girls. I think I cracked this one.
Aha! There she is! [gasps] Oh, dear. Really should have changed. [huffs] No matter! I'm going to give her quite the talking to! ...Right after she's done with her conversation. Anger is no excuse for poor manners, after all.
Okay, Zipporwhill. What do you see?
My puppy?
That's not what I see. I see a full-grown dog.
He did get bigger, I guess.
He's not just bigger. He's older, too.
You don't still play with the same toys from when you were a foal, do you?
Oh. Ohhh. The squeaker is a little small for him now. [sighs] It's just hard for me to believe he's not the same adorable little guy I found anymore.
I understand. But doing things like you used to won't turn him back into a puppy.
So... what do I do?
Treat him like the dog he is, and find new favorite things to do together.
You think so?
I know so!
Rarity?!
Oh, Sweetie Belle. I heard what you said, and you are so right.
About the dog?
Yes, but about us, too. The truth is, I know you're not a little filly anymore. But it's just... the last time we did all of those things together, I... I didn't realize it was gonna be the last last time. I loved doing those things with you. It's hard for me to let that go.
Aww, Rarity! I love being with you too! That will never change! But... maybe we could just try to do different things together?
What is it, puppy? [giggles] I mean, Ripley?
[giggling] I love you too, Ripley! Thank you, Crusaders.
No problem!
Oh, Ripley!
Sweetie Belle, I'm so very proud of the pony you've grown into.
And I'm proud that no matter what, I'll always be your little sister.
I, uh, have a little bit of time before I have to head back to Canterlot. Could we spend it together? What would a grown pony like you want to do?
Well, I do have one idea...
Heh, I didn't realize your idea would be such a delicious one! [giggles] I don't know how I'm going to finish this.
Oh! I'll help you!
[straining] Scootaloo... is this such a... good idea?
What are you talking about? This is the best idea I've ever had!
[grunting] It's just...
You wanna come. But we talked about this. Non-Pegasus ponies fall through the clouds.
Right, but...
I think we're good.
We are? Scootaloo, I know you have to go to Cloudsdale to finish your report. I'm just wonderin' if this is the best way to get there.
It'll be fine. Besides, how else could I get there?
A Pegasus chariot?
A flock of birds?
A hot-air balloon?
Huh. Those do seem a lot safer. Maybe I should try to find another waaaaaaaaayyyyyy!
Woo-hoo!
[grunts, weakly] Nailed it.
[echoing] Uh, little ma'am, are you all right?
[gasps] You're... You're... You're... Rainbow Dash's dad!
Uh, yes. Bow Hothoof at your service.
Uh, honey? Somethin's goin' on out here!
Oh! Heavens to Celestia, what's wrong with her?!
I don't know, but you just made it worse.
She's doing it again!
Oh, dearie, please! You might shatter my Princess Celestia commemorative plates! Ow!
Our Rainbow Dash?
The report's on an inspirational pony in my life, and nopony inspires me more than she does! I'm putting together this scrapbook for my report! I'm her biggest fan!
Now, little trotter, what you say is impossible. [excitedly] Because nopony is a bigger fan of our Rainbow Dash than us!
Whoa! You always wear that shirt?
Heh. Actually, it's, uh, laundry day. But pretty great, right?!
Yeah!
My name's Windy Whistles, and I just have to say that it is a total blast to meet somepony that loves Rainbow Dash as much as we do!
What can we help you with?
Well, I know all about Rainbow Dash's time in Ponyville, but I don't know anything about her life before that.
Well, you came to the right place!
I can't believe I'm eating Rainbow Dash's favorite food made by Rainbow Dash's mom while sitting in Rainbow Dash's childhood kitchen! This is the greatest day of my life! [munches loudly] Mmmm!
I think it's time for a tour of the house.
[mouth full] Okay.
Our little Dashie was an early learner and so rambunctious. The combination was—
[singsongy] Exciting!
Whoa... Is that... her room?
[screams] Rainbow Dash's linen closet! Her carpet! Her inspirational poster! [reading] "When the going gets tough, the tough don't notice because they have hard shells." That's so Rainbow Dash!
Woo-hoo!
Scootaloo, wanna see something really cool?
Pretty great, huh?
So great!
And look at this! She was wearing it when she spoke her first words.
So cool!
And this broken lantern is from when she first learned to fly.
And this bitten apple is from when she grew her first tooth! [gasps] So many memories!
You're so lucky to have all of these!
Well, I may have a ton of Dash-mentos, but I don't have any of those "Rainbow Dash Saves Ponyville" headlines like you.
[gasps] Trade-sies?
Deal-sies!
So where's all the Wonderbolt stuff?
You mean Rainbow Dash's personal collection of Wonderbolt memorabilia?
No. I mean, where's all the stuff about Rainbow Dash getting accepted into the Wonderbolt Academy and then getting chosen as a Wonderbolt? Wait, you don't know that your daughter's a Wonderbolt? And I got to tell you?!
Uhhhhhhhhh...
Oh, wow! You should see your faces right now!
See? That's what your faces look like.
Our daughter's a Wonderbolt?!
Great timing.
Great door.
I just... It's... Unbelievable!
You two were kind enough to show me the Rainbow Dash you know. Now please, allow me to show you the Rainbow Dash I know.
Let's make some thunder!
I was born to make thunder!
Our baby's a Wonderbolt!
We've got turbulence!
How? Where's it coming from?
I'm so proud!
There!
[cheering loudly] She's a Wonderbolt!
Oh, no.
Okay. Which pony broke protocol and invited guests to our training exercises?!
I guess they're with me. [groans, embarrassed] Mom, Dad. So... good... to see you.
Oh, honey, it's so great to see you, too! And wow! You were so amazing up there with all of that flying!
Uh, how did you know I was here?
Scootaloo filled us in on everything, you modest pony you!
I can't believe I'm documenting the moment your parents first saw you as a Wonderbolt!
And these must be your Wonderbolt friends! Hello, team! I'm Windy Whistles, the mom of the best Wonderbolt ever! Yeah! Just kidding. You guys were great, too! Go, team!
Moooom!
Hello, ma'am. Nice to meet you.
Nice to meet you as well, and love those goggles! Love 'em! You know, I have goggles, too. But they're mostly just for swimming. Oh, and bath time.
Mom, please! They don't wanna hear about your bath time!
I can't believe it! My daughter, a Wonderbolt! [sobs] So proud!
Dad, hold it together. We're in public.
All right, Wonderbolts! Let's hit the showers and give Rainbow Dash some time to spend with her family.
Okay, yeah! Uh, great practice! I'll, uh, eh, catch up with you guys in a minute!
Sir, you really raised a great flyer!
Oh, no! [straining] Tears... welling up again!
Dad!
Could you give us a sec?
Is something wrong?
Yeah. You should've warned me that you were bringing my parents! Or talked to Twilight or something! Not just shown up!
Why?
Ugh! It's just my parents and I have a delicate relationship. I love them very much, and we're really close, but there's a reason I didn't tell them I'm a Wonderbolt! They can be a little bit... embarrassing.
Huh? Really?
Yeah, really! And now you've invited a whole lot of crazy into my life!
What's wrong with a little support?
Bow and Windy, I'd like you to meet Apple Bloom and Sweetie Belle.
Hi!
Hello.
Greetings, small ponies.
Are you excited to see Rainbow Dash?
Oh, my, yes! And to think we never bothered to come to a Wonderbolt event!
We said if Rainbow Dash isn't a Wonderbolt, then what's the point? But now, she is!
And she earned it! Did you know it all started when she won a spot in the coveted Wonderbolts Academy, training under Spitfire?
I didn't know that! How wonderful!
But then, she had some heavy competition. Especially against another Pegasus named Lightning Dust.
Oh, no!
But, of course, Rainbow Dash proved to be the best and later made it into the Wonderbolt Reserves!
Hooray again!
But jealous ex-Wonderbolt Wind Rider was worried that Rainbow Dash might break his speed record. And so, he framed her for a crime she didn't commit.
Oh, no!
But thanks to Rarity, Rainbow Dash proved her innocence and became a backup Wonderbolt until Fire Streak retired, and she became an official Wonderbolt!
Hooray! Wow, what a gripping tale!
You really know your Rainbow Dash history. You're going to do great on your report.
Show's about to start.
Come on, Bolts! Let's start this thing!
Wonderbolts' Big Showcase! Here! We! Gooooooooo!
Rip it up and tear! It! Down!
Then build it back up again and tear it back down again! Yeah!
Woo! Yeah! Uh-huh, uh-huh! Go go go! Yes! Go, Rainbow Dash! Best Wonderbolt ever!
Woo-hoo! That's my daughter! Go, Rainbow! Go, Dashie, go-go-go-go-go!
You go, girl!
[to Rainbow] Your folks were definitely loud, but they weren't that bad.
Whoa! Since when did we add fireworks to the show?!
Uhhhh, we didn't.
Wow...
Go, Rainbow Dash! You sign that photo! Whoo!
Cut the ribbon! Cut the ribbon! Cut the ribbon! Cut the ribbon!
The camera loves you! Yeah!
Now, let's do the pyramid! Scootaloo, get up there! You're the top!
[to Rainbow] You really do got yourself your very own mega-fans. Lucky you.
You hung that towel!
Yeah!
Greatest towel hanger of all time! [chanting] Towel!
[chanting] Towel! Towel! Towel! Towel! Towel! Towel! Towel! Tow—
Stop! This is ridiculous! Mom and Dad, you are both too supportive! This is exactly why I didn't tell you I was a Wonderbolt! You're just... too much!
Did... Did we do something wrong?
Yes! The fireworks, the cheerleading, and-and how do you even compare who is better or worse at hanging up a towel?!
We're just trying to be supportive.
Well, I'm tired of it! I've had enough of you two being so proud of every little ridiculous, insignificant thing I do! [pants] I think you should leave.
First of all, great job yelling at us, sweetie. No one [sniffs] can make their parents feel more worthless than you!
[through tears] Your words were direct, clear, and... so painful! Is there nothing you can't do?!
Why?
Scootaloo, you don't understand!
I met your parents hoping to learn more about you, but I don't like what I found out! I'll find somepony else to do my hero report on.
[panting] Scootaloo, wait! I know I wasn't myself back there, and I shouldn't have snapped at my parents! That's exactly why I didn't tell them I'm a Wonderbolt!
I don't understand. They're so proud of you.
[sighs] Can I tell you something?
Sure.
Okay, but you might wanna hold onto your wings because this could rock you to your very core. Believe it or not, there was a time when I wasn't the best at everything.
See this picture? It looks like I won something awesome, but actually...
And last, but not least, it's time to hand out our participant stickers!
Yeeeeeeeaaaaahhhhh!
Greatest participant ever!
Young "Dumb-Bell": Uh, your parents realize you didn't win, don't they?
Granted, I was the youngest pony in the senior competitive circuit. Most other ponies my age were still in the Junior Flappers' Club. I thought it was utterly mortifying having my parents cheer me on even when I lost!
[voiceover] But then, when I started to win competitions – which didn't take very long, by the way – things got even worse!
[voiceover] Being the best came with consequences. Very loud, very embarrassing consequences.
Ya know, some ponies would dream of having parents like that.
Yeah, right! Name one!
[sighs] Me. Growing up, I never thought I'd be the best at anything, because nopony ever told me. But your parents told you over and over again. Look! Best bath taker ever. Best carrot eater under three. Greatest napper of all time!
[scoffs] I am pretty good at napping. I can fall asleep anywhere. [snores] Huh?
For your entire life, your parents gave you the confidence to believe in yourself.
You're right. I was always so embarrassed by my parents that I didn't realize their support actually made me the awesome, confident, amazing, awesome, and awesome pony I am! [sighs] And I took them for granted.
And you yelled at them.
[groans] I gotta make this right. I have an idea, but I'm gonna need your help. That is, if you're willing to help me after I acted like that.
Now, that's a great picture! "Rainbow Dash learns the error of her ways"!
I'm telling you, I just can't see a thing. Scootaloo, you are just so great at blindfolds!
It's true. You must tell me what kind of knot you used. Uh, falconer's knot? Wait, no! A farmer's loop!
What's this all about, anywho?
[over loudspeaker] Windy Whistles and Bow Hothoof, please be seated for a super private Wonderbolt event! [clears throat] Mom and Dad, welcome to the... [quickly] "I Love My Parents and I'm Sorry That I Took Them for Granted and I Know That They Made Me Who I Am Today So I Really Wanna Make It Up to Them"... [normally] event. Enjoy!
Thanks for doing this.
Happy to help.
Mom and Dad, I want you to know that I'm your biggest fan.
Oh, honey, thank you. But you didn't have to do all this. It's kind of [whispers] embarrassing.
Eh, it is a bit much.
And that's why Rainbow Dash is the most inspirational pony in my life!
Thank you, Scootaloo. Very well researched! But a little heavy on the pictures, and there was a moldy sandwich in your report. [chuckles] Um, I'll give you a B.
Yeah! Greatest report giver of all time!
Bow Hothoof, Windy Whistles, [chanting] Scootaloo! Scootaloo! Scootaloo!
Hey, Apple Bloom! Rarity's reorganizing her shop, and look what she found! Old costumes from the talent show!
We thought they'd come in handy in case we ever help a pony put on a play or need to make a quick escape disguised as clowns.
Here ya go, Big Mac.
Whoa, that sure is a lot of apples!
Are you makin' another delivery to Starlight's old village?
Eeyup.
That's an awful long way for a pony to go, isn't it?
Eeyup.
You've been goin' there a lot lately. What is this, your fifth trip this week?
[laughs nervously] Eeyup.
Okay, well, have fun. So what other costumes did you bring, Sweetie Belle?
Are you crazy?! We can't talk about costumes at a time like this!
Time like what?
Your brother is hiding something. Did you see the way he was acting?
Yeah. He totally blushed when you brought up how often he's been going to Starlight's old village.
Something is definitely going on. There can be only be one reason a pony would travel so far, so often.
...and he wants to get away from the smell!
Maybe he's a spy on a mission to thwart an evil villain with a secret weapon: an apple cannon!
No, that's crazy! I think it's my broccoli thing.
Why don't we just ask him?
You saw how shifty he was acting earlier. There's no way he'll tell us what he's doing. Plus, I really wanna go undercover. We already have costumes! Call me "Agent Rainbowhead".
I'll be "Shimmering Spectacles", a librarian with a mysterious past.
And I'll be a pirate spy! Arrrgh! A spy-rate!
[gasps] Avast! Our ship be leavin' port!
Huh?
Big Mac's leavin'! If we're gonna be spies, we gotta go! Now!
Big Mac's a-comin'! Quick! Act like apples!
What? How?
Who's that pony?
Let me see! I dunno. Shouldn't have taken the binoculars. I don't know anypony here.
That must be Sugar Belle. Applejack told me about her bakery. Obviously, she's just been orderin' a lot of apples.
So nothing fishy's going on.
No way! We came here to be spies! And no spy I know has ever solved a case that quick!
Mmm, how many spies do you know?
That's... not important. What's important is that we do more recon. Follow my lead!
Mm.
Whoa. She sure likes her apples.
What is she doing? Making the biggest apple pie in Equestria?
Thanks for coming all this way, Big Mac.
It sure is nice seeing you again so soon.
All I used to bake were boring old muffins, but thanks to your apple deliveries, I get to bake all kinds of delicious treats! Apple pies, apple fritters, apple turnovers, caramel apples, caramel apple cakes... [sighs] I just wish I had more room to display it all. My shelves only hold so much.
I'm tellin' you, this pony reeeeaaally likes her apples.
[gasps] Or Big Mac!
Huh?
Just look!
Sweetie Belle, I-I think you're right! [loudly] I think my brother has a crush!
Shh!
Psst! Big Mac! [to the Crusaders] Now remember, my brother's super shy, so he's probably gonna be embarrassed about his crush. Just try and make him feel comfortable. Hey, Big Mac, it's me! Apple Bloom!
Eeyup.
We're here, too!
Mm-hmm.
I'm gonna ask you a very personal question, and I want you to answer honestly. Do you... have a crush on... Sugar Belle?
Eeyup.
Well, that was easy.
This is so excitin'! My big brother has his very first crush!
First crush? What about Cheerilee?
It doesn't really count when you trick a pony into drinking a love potion, does it?
[angrily] Nnope!
[singsongy] My brother has a crush! My brother has a crush! My brother has a crush! [normally] Wait! Does Sugar Belle even know you like her?
Uh-uh.
Then you gotta tell her!
O-Oh... eh... ehhhh...
We're pretty sure she likes you! I mean, she keeps ordering apples just so she can see you again.
Eeeyou think so?
Totally! But you'll never know if you don't try.
Okay!
Go get her, Big Mac!
[California accent] Hey, girl. Heh-heh. I was writin' poetry by the pond when I saw these flowers. I thought I'd show them how pretty you are.
Oh! Heh. Thanks, Feather Bangs.
Um, is it possible to have two crushes at once? Because it looks like Big Mac may not be the only pony Sugar Belle likes.
Hey, Big Mac! Where ya goin'?
Home!
You can't let that Feather fella get in the way of your one true love!
You've gotta take him down!
What can he do that you can't?
That!
Whoops! Heh-heh. These balls are like you. I'll always catch you if you fall.
Seriously? That line worked?
She'll never pick me.
Sure she will, 'cause we're gonna help you.
No love potions!
Don't worry, Big Mac. We learned our lesson the hard way.
Yeah. We're never gonna do that again.
Besides, I know exactly what to do! When I was younger, I read all the fairy tales.
When you were "younger", huh?
Well, I was younger on the way here!
It was a long ride! Anyway, as long as we do what the book says, you're pretty much guaranteed a happy ending. Uh, how about this one? "Rescuing a damsel-pony-in-distress." That's perfect! Of course, we'll have to improvise without a dragon.
Huh. Too bad Spike isn't here. Not that he's very threatening.
So what should we do? Wait around for Sugar Belle to get herself into a scary situation?
Or... we bring the danger to her.
All right. Scootaloo's gonna pretend to take Sugar Belle's things, then you swoop in and stop her. Ready?
Nnope.
Come on! You're gonna be her hero! In fairy tales, the knight in shining armor always gets the girl.
Hmmm... Mm-hmm.
Oh! Somepony, help!
Here's your sugar, Sugar. Though it is not as sweet... [chuckling] ...as you.
[sighs] Thank you, Feather!
That smooth-talkin' pony stole our rescue! And it totally would've worked!
[angry] Eeyup.
We're just gonna have to keep trying! Big Mac, are you ready to take it up a notch?
Oh, yup!
Oh, nope.
Trust us! There's nothing more romantic than waking your special pony from a sleeping spell with a magical kiss! See? "They rode off into the sunset."
Any sign of Feather Bangs?
Negative! Coast is clear!
It's now or never, Big Mac!
Oh-ho-ho, girl, you been workin' hard all day. Allow me to treat you like the princess... [chuckling] ...you are.
Hey! That's our metaphorical sunset they're riding off into!
All right! This ends now! Feather Bangs may have good timing, and... a good mane... uh, but let's see him compete with a song!
S-Say what now?
Of course! Why didn't we think of it before?
Every great love story hinges on the romantic musical number. Big Mac, you've gotta write a song for Sugar Belle!
Eeyup.
Come on, Big Mac!
"Swoon Song": [Valley girl accent] Feather Bangs is soooo romantic.
"Fond Feather": [Valley girl accent] When he speaks, I pretend he's talking to me.
Come on! You can do better than him! Just like we practiced!
We'll take a walk down by the river Watch the sunset from the field We'll plant the seeds of love together And water 'em right for a really good yield
Sugar Belle, sweet as pie You're the apple of my eye A cherry blossom in a field of rye And when the heifer's milked and fed And the pigs are in the sty Won't you be there by my side?
Oh, oh Oh, ah-oh
When you appeared before me My heart stopped beating Stars crossed the sky To come see what I was seeing
You were the one That made me believe I could fly Whoa, whoa, whoa
Birds could not sing A song that's as beautiful I'd do anything That's irrefutable
'Cause you are the sun Painting my heart in the sky (whoa-oh, oh)
Sugar, Sugar Belle, whoa-oh When will you tell me that you feel the same? Like an angel on a candy cane Or the sunlight shining through a drain
Sugar Belle, when I look in your eyes [clears throat] I see the color blue And it reminds me of the sky above Uh, which is also... blue
Hey, hey, hey, yeah
Be my sugarplum I will be your watermelon Every time you smile I can feel my heart a-swellin'
Blood is rushing from my head to my hooves, yeah I start movin' when I'm feeling that groove, yeah
I've been writin' this song for you Searchin' for the perfect rhyme For the words I wanna say Somethin', somethin', somethin', somethin'... Be mine
[Michael Jackson sounds] [autotuned] Every day I see you I know you could be the one for me Feel my heart a-beating like The rain upon a bumblebee
Don't you see that I could, uh-oh, uh-oh Whenever you are near me, I'm so... uh-oh
Sugar Belle! Roses are red and violets are blue!
Sugar, Sugar! My love is burning hot like a cheese fondue!
Sugar Belle!
Sugar Belle!
Sugar Belle!
Sugar Belle!
Sugar Belle!
Sugar Belle!
Sugar Belle!
What in Equestria has gotten into you two?! If you think I'm the kind of pony that likes all this nonsense, then you clearly don't know me at all! I wish everypony would just... leave me alone!
Big Mac? Oh, Big Mac?!
Well, nopony's seen him.
Aw, I feel terrible. I've never seen my brother so upset before. Oh, Big Mac?! Big Mac!
Are you okay?
Nnope.
Sorry it didn't work out with Sugar Belle.
We don't get it. Big, grand gestures always work in the fairy tales.
But Sugar Belle's not a fairy tale princess. She's a real pony. She's kind, and she works hard, and she's sweeter than everything in her bakery.
That's it! We shoulda been thinking about what would mean a lot to Sugar Belle!
Hmmm... [gasps] I know just the thing! But I'm gonna need your help!
Really? Even after we messed it up?
Eeyup. Come on!
Oh, okay. I'm... Wait a minute. You look familiar.
[fake voice] I shouldn't. Um, uh, I'm new in town. Mind showing me around?
Uh, sure. That's the whole town. It's just the one street.
[fake voice] Oh, no! Clumsy me! Here, let me help you clean it up!
I don't think Scootaloo can hold her off much longer.
[fake voice] Uh, n-now hold on a minute. Are you sure I can't buy you a new bag?
I'm good. It's no big deal.
Okay, what's going on?
[normal voice] Ahhh! The cupcake has landed! Repeat – the cupcake has landed! Oof!
Big Mac! You made me a new display case?
Eeyup.
And you made it bigger! You remembered! [gasps] Now I have twice as much room for all my desserts! [gasps] Which means... I can make even more! I've been dying to try baking cream pies and whoopie pies and icebox cakes and, of course, more apple treats! Oh, Big Mac, thank you so much. This is the sweetest thing anypony's ever done for me.
[chuckles] Uh, y-y-yeah or-or nope or...
[giggles] I like you, too.
Awwwww!
That was the most romantic thing ever!
Wait a minute. I recognize you fillies. [to Big Mac] Have they been with you this whole time?
Ee—
I'm Big Mac's little sister, and these are my friends. We're sorry for everything we put you through today, Sugar Belle. Big Mac never would've gone through with all of those crazy...
...over-the-top...
...downright ridiculous...
...attempts to impress you if we hadn't put him up to it. But we learned our lesson. Romance isn't about impressin' somepony. It's about doin' somethin' that means somethin' special to that pony you love— Heh... [clears throat] like a lot.
Uh, Apple Bloom, I think they get it.
[singing] Sugar Be-eee-eee-elle...! [vocalizing] Yeah.
Sorry, Feather. You're a little too late.
Yeah! Sugar Belle's already picked her special somepony!
But don't worry. You've got three not-so-secret admirers right behind you!
[nervous laugh] What should I say to them?
Uh, you're askin' us for advice?
Uh-huh. Look, I-I can mane flip, write poetry, and juggle, but actually talkin' to a pony? Oh, it scares me almost as much as loneliness. Will you help me? Please?
Gee, I don't know about this.
He just needs a little nudge in the conversation department. Besides, I don't think Big Mac's ready to leave just yet.
Let's do it!
Feather Bangs, the Cutie Mark Crusaders are...
No. [chuckling] It's a call for submissions. Fashion contest I'm organizing. A showcase for aspiring young designers.
Oh, wow! What an awesome idea!
Thank you. I remember how difficult it was to break into the fashion industry when I was starting out. That's why the winner of the contest will get to debut their line in the Carousel Boutique!
[dreamily] So selfless... So generous...
I've also managed to get esteemed fashion critic Hoity Toity and iconic fashion photographer Photo Finish to come to Ponyville and judge the show. And... [squealing] Wait until you hear who else will be a judge.
Countess Coloratura?
Sassy Saddles?
Spike?!
No! [chuckling] The third judge for the Carousel Boutique's Couture du Future Fashion Contest is none other than... Applejack!
What?!
What?!
What?!
...What?
What?!
You already said that, darling.
I know. But I had to say it again because that's how confused I am. You want me to judge a fashion show?
I'm sure Rarity has her reasons, and once we hear them, all of this will make sense.
I admit, Applejack is an unorthodox choice. But that is precisely what makes her an inspired choice!
See? Now it all... still doesn't make any sense.
Hoity Toity has expertise in fabric and stitchwork. Photo Finish has an artistic eye for shapes and colors. But sometimes, we designers forget about practicality. That's where you come in.
Uh, I think I might be a little too practical. My closet's nothin' but twenty versions of this hat.
Which tells me you're a pony who knows what she likes. Besides, a judge must be honest, and you're the most honest pony there is. Ask any pony – they'll tell you.
Ooh! Ooh! Lemme try! [to Cherry Fizzy] Excuse me. Have you ever heard of Applejack?
The most honest pony there is? Sure have!
See? So what do you say?
Well, if I'm bein' honest, I don't think I'm the right pony for the job. Fashion just ain't my bag of oats.
Aw, booooo!
I do understand your hesitation. But before you say no, sleep on it?
Sure, I... guess I can do that for ya.
I mean, heh, can you imagine? Me, judgin' a fashion show?
I'd do it! It sounds like fun gettin' to see all those pretty outfits!
Although... Rarity did say I just had to focus on practicality. She already has experts for the... uh, fashion-y stuff. Eh, but I still wouldn't know what to say.
Come on, Apple Bloom! You're doublin' our workload here!
Sorry. I wanted to wear a signature hat like yours, but it's makin' it harder to see.
Wow! That is a lot better! Thanks, Applejack!
Sure thing. You know what? I am gonna help Rarity judge her show! I think my sensible "everypony" take on fashion is exactly what the pony community needs!
Rarity, I thought about it some more, and if you still need me, I'd love to be a judge.
[squeals] I just knew you'd come around!
I, Photo Finish, have arrived!
As has Hoity Toity.
[gasps] It's wonderful to see you! Mwah! Mwah! Mwah!
[simultaneously] Kiss! Kiss! Kiss!
Thank you both so much for doing this. Mwah! Mwah! Mwah!
We missed you at Miss Pommel's debut in Manehattan last week.
Miss Pommel is showing? I thought she was still making costumes.
Oh, my, they're absolutely stunning!
It sure is great to hear Miss Pommel is doin' so well.
Who is this?! Who speaks?!
Oh, uh, this is Applejack. Another one of the judges.
So, judge, what do you think?
Oh. Wow. Uh, that is just... wow. These are clothes?
Ze photo is upside-down!
This is... [scoffs] She looks like a disco ball! Hah! D-Did they have to roll her down the runway?! [laughing] I can't believe anypony would actually wear this! [laughing] Am I right?
Oh, my!
I faint! Ugh...
[nervous chuckling] So funny... Ahem.
Oh, gosh. I didn't mean to make her faint.
Oh, don't worry about it, darling. Uh, it happens all the time. Besides, that dress did look a bit like a disco ball. Although, Miss Pommel is making the point that, no matter what we wear, it is a costume of some kind or another.
I have no idea what you're talkin' about.
And... that's okay. Let's go meet the designers and help them get ready for the show!
Designers, welcome! Today you will work on your designs, and we judges will offer our guidance and advice as you prepare for tomorrow's big show.
Lily Lace, tell us about your inspiration.
[Valley girl accent] You guys, this morning, on my way here, I heard a bird singing literally the most beautiful song I'd ever heard! And I wanted to capture not so much the bird's song exactly but more like how the wind carried the bird's song!
Powerful yet at the same time fragile and delicate.
Uh... Huh?
Next up, meet Starstreak.
[panting] I'm not interested in what's already been done. Only what will exist... in the future!
Mmmm... Tomorrow's fashion belongs to those who hear it coming.
I am Inky Rose.
You have a very focused vision! A strong sense of what you want! It's gut!
Applejack, you've been rather quiet. What do you think?
Well... it's a lot of black. It's kinda... depressing.
How's this?
Makes a world of difference!
Maybe to fashion experts like you. But to ponies like me, it's still black.
And I'm not sure how you wear singin' birds or the future. [to Rarity] I don't think they liked what I had to say.
Ah, well, that's why you're here. Fashion needs a healthy dose of practicality now and then.
Are you puttin' holes in the clothes?! On purpose?!
It's to create a distressed look.
More like an old and tattered look! When a pony's old clothes get holes in 'em, they don't wanna go to the store to buy new clothes with holes in 'em!
Okay, yes, not a very practical choice. Fashionable, but not practical.
Simply shtunning!
Sure, it looks pretty, but that's a lot of fabric. With the way it drags behind, it'll be covered in dirt in no time. Thank goodness I'm here. Otherwise, we'd have had holes in clothes and dirty dresses.
But of course, no look is complete without mane and makeup!
So, uh... when are you gonna do her mane?
Ugh! It's already been done!
You know what? Uh, I think we've given the designers enough guidance for today. Let's, uh, let them finish their work.
Uh, can't wait to see what y'all do for the big show tomorrow!
I literally don't know why...
[simultaneously] I am so offended.
[simultaneous grumbling] That was so insensitive...
Hey, Applejack! On your way home? How'd the first day of the contest go?
Heh! Great! At first, I didn't think I'd be much help. But thank goodness I signed on! Without me, they'd be doin' all kinds of crazy fashion-y things!
Hey, Rarity! Applejack says the contest is going great! Good thing she's there, huh?
Yes, of course... Some of her thoughts are tough to swallow, but hopefully her candor will help the designers achieve the best designs possible.
Sure... Hmm.
[sighs] Much better.
[inhale, exhale] I can meet my goals. Today is a fresh start. Good morning, everypony! Time for final adjustments before the show!
If buttons could convey sadness, you've done it.
To me, they convey wakin' up an hour early just to button 'em all! And that's if you could reach most of 'em!
Is this better?
Heh. There you go! Now when it's cold, you just slide it on ya, and you're set. Like a poncho!
Um... poncho?
Ohhhhh. You used hoof-cross-double-over stitches! [chuckles] They're perfect!
Who cares if it's stitched perfectly? You don't need feathers on your head!
Gasp!
My little sister tried to add some flair to her hat, and guess what it got her – an extra hour of work pickin' apples off the ground!
A good start, but it needs more. No. No. No. Yes!
I'd go with this one.
No, this one!
Something is funny?
What? Oh, no. Uh, it's just, I mean... Those belts look the same.
Well, that one completely changes the look. This one complements it.
You're kiddin', right?
Is everything okay?
They're havin' a heated debate about those two belts.
Ooh! Both good choices.
No! There is no choice! They're the exact same belt! Ugh! This is so silly! Fashion is ridiculous!
You don't mean that!
I do! I'm sorry, but that's my honest opinion!
Well! I never would've come if I knew we were going to be insulted!
We go!
No! Please! Come back!
If they're out, I'm out, too. I didn't get into fashion to design boring utilitarian clothes!
Yeah... no.
What? I was just bein' honest!
Stop everything! There is no show! Take it all down!
Rarity, what's going on? Is everything okay?
No! It is the opposite of okay! The judges have quit! The designers have dropped out! The show is cancelled! All my good intentions squashed! [sobbing] And it's all Applejack's fault!
Why are you mad at me?! I was just sayin' what I thought! And isn't that why you wanted me to be a judge?! For my honesty?!
Of course! But you said fashion is ridiculous!
But it's my opinion! And I'm not gonna lie!
Oh—! [scoffs] Come with me!
[chewing] Mmmm! [gulp] Oh! [chuckling] Rarity! Oh, what a nice surprise!
Hello, Strawberry Sunrise. This is Applejack. I was wondering if you could tell her how you feel about apples.
Don't like 'em.
What?! Why?! They're crunchy, they're sweet, they're delicious.
You're right! Apples are better than strawberries!
Only if, by "better", you mean "better at being disgusting".
[stammering] You'd better apologize!
Oh, I'm sorry... that you actually bite into those tasteless, mealyworm-filled things. Ohhh.
Applejack, why are you so angry? It's just Strawberry's honest opinion. What's wrong with that?
Well, that's fine if she doesn't like 'em! But if she knew how hard we worked to make our apples perfect, maybe she wouldn't be so mean about—! ...Ohhhhhhh... Oh, boy.
Mm-hmm. Doesn't feel so good, does it?
Nope. No, it does not at all. [sighs] I am so sorry, Rarity. I got so carried away with bein' honest, I guess I didn't think about how I was makin' others feel. [sighs] I'm a real rotten apple.
I appreciate that, Applejack. That means a lot. I just wish you'd realized it before you ruined the fashion show.
I need to get some of these.
It's the only way to travel.
What are you doing?!
Canterlot is that way.
Yup. But you're not goin' back to Canterlot yet.
Hey!
I don't know.
Run.
I can't even!
Whew... Listen, y'all. I thought I was just bein' honest when I said all those things. But somepony helped me realize I was actually bein' hurtful. So for that, I apologize.
Zo! You don't think fashion is ridiculous?!
Uh... Well, I, uh... I still don't understand it. But I appreciate how much it means to y'all and how much hard work you put into it. I also know this contest is important to Rarity. So what do you say?
Well, I'd hate to have come all this way here and not see what you can do.
If they're judging, we're in.
Under one condition. Literally.
Anything.
Untie us.
Show's back on, fellers!
[grunting] Ahhh...
Aah!
Uh-uh. Uh-huh.
...And then, Applejack found me and told me to distract you for an hour. But the hour's up! Ta-da!
B-B-But how?! They were all leaving. This was all coming down.
You can thank Applejack. She literally did it all by herself.
I don't think that word means what you think it means. But I did bust my tail because I know how much this means to you.
Ohhhhh! Thank you, Applejack.
We start now!
First up, Lily Lace!
Starstreak!
Inky Rose!
And now, it's time to vote. I am drawn to the beauty and drama of fashion, and nopony does drama better than Lily Lace, so I vote for her.
Simplicity is the keynote of true elegance. That is why I vote for Inky Rose.
You've... made me so... happy?
Fashion is the art! I, Photo Finish, vote for Starstreak!
Wonderful to hear, darling.
Well, it all comes down to you, Applejack.
Can you believe it?! After everything that's happened, Applejack is the deciding vote! [screams] This is so exciting! Eeeeee!
Well, Applejack?
[sucks air through teeth] Uh... Heh. U-Uh... Uh...
Lily Lace's clothes go here, Inky Rose's will go there, and Starstreak's there.
Sorry, but I couldn't pick just one. They all did great, and in my opinion, they all deserve to win.
And I agree. I told you your perspective would be beneficial.
Is, uh, this one of your new designs, Rarity? It's, uh... Uh, the form is... reminiscent of, uh... I mean, it conjures up images of... uh... well, uh... I-I mean...
Oh, that? No! I totally messed that one up! It's ghastly! Horrid! Absolutely terrible!
Hah. Oh, thank goodness. 'Cause in my honest opinion... it's awful.
Pffft!
When you're right, you're right!
I am relieved!
I know! I can't believe it either! The map has never called me before!
I'm sure that's not why she looks... like that.
I also wasn't nervous before, but now...
Don't worry. For all we know, it's something small. Like maybe the cooks are fighting over who has the best butternut squash soup. Or the royal hairdressers are fighting over a comb.
Or, you know, maybe the royal sisters aren't seeing eye-to-eye on something.
No! That's just crazy! Luna and Celestia would never fight. [beat] Again.
So the map sent you to solve a friendship problem?
Yes, princess.
Well, there's nothing wrong here. Right, sister?
[sourly] No. Everything's perfect as usual, sister.
Psst! Pssst!
Twilight? Is that you? How are you here?
[quickly] I'm not. I'm still home. It's an easy spell. I'll show you later. Anyway, enough about me. I had to check on you. Not in a meddling kind of way! In a friendly "how's it going?" kind of way. So, how's it going?
[sighs] Not great. I think the problem might be between Celestia and Luna.
Oh, no, that's terrible! I mean, what makes you say that?
You know how some ponies say nothing's wrong but you can tell something's definitely wrong?
[nervously] Noooooo... Heh.
That's basically what the princesses did when I said there was a friendship problem. Only they did it more, you know, regally.
Oh, I wish I could help you, but I can't – both for map reasons and because I have no idea! This is big! Like, really big! But I'm here if you ever need to talk. Or listen to music.
Heh. Comforting, right?
Thank you so much for breakfast, princess. I can't believe you cook it yourself.
Of course, Starlight! I really enjoy doing it. It's a small way to say I care.
Good morning, sister! Join us?
[sourly] Too tired. [chomp] Please excuse me.
Wow. Last night must've been really hard on her.
[sighs] Perhaps. But she is like this every morning.
So I think Luna may be hurting her sister's feelings without even realizing it.
Poor Celestia. That's so sweet that she makes her sister pancakes every morning.
She's your mentor. I think you might be biased.
Fair enough. So what are you gonna do?
Nothing, yet. I have to get all the facts. I asked Luna if I could spend some time with her this evening.
Princess Luna's waiting for you, miss.
Good luck, Starlight!
Wow, Princess Luna. You do this every night?
Lavender's calming scent is known to aid dreamers in achieving a restorative sleep.
[sniffs] That's so thoughtful!
I try my best to make sure the ponies in this castle sleep peacefully.
[laughs] Oh, you really are a card!
[sighs] But as always, my sister is too busy having fun with dignitary ponies to acknowledge anything I do. Hmph!
So, both princesses are hurting each other without realizing it. And instead of talking about it, they're just getting colder and more distant.
And they're Celestia and Luna. So it's not like you can just confront them.
Actually, that's exactly what I was gonna do.
What?! Are you crazy?! I mean, heh, you do whatever you think is best. This is your mission.
[sarcastically] Gee, thanks for believing in me, Twilight.
I do. But the last time the princesses fought, Luna turned into Nightmare Moon, and Princess Celestia had to banish her for a thousand years! That can't happen again!
Well, I can't do nothing. The princesses aren't the best at communicating with each other.
[gasps] Sorry. It's just, you said "princesses" and "aren't the best" in the same sentence, and it's making me nervous!
I'm not much help, am I?
No!
Wow. I almost feel bad eating this. It's adorable.
Like I said, I enjoy this part.
[sourly, mouth full] Hi.
Uh, Princess Luna! Wait! [deep breath] As you both know, the map sent me here for a reason, and I... think I found out what it is.
Really? Oh, that is wonderful, Starlight! What is it?
You two.
Excuse me?
[simultaneous] I beg your pardon?
I think you're accidentally hurting each other's feelings without realizing it. Princess Celestia, does it bother you that Luna never notices the wonderful breakfasts that you prepare for her?
Uh... Y-Yes. It does.
Princess Luna, tell Celestia how you feel about the fact that she never acknowledges the work you put into lining the hallway with lavender every night.
I... Well, I... I-It's not the best feeling. [to Celestia] I'm sorry I never noticed that you make fruit faces on pancakes, but nights are long for me. You might be a morning pony, but I am half-asleep.
You think I don't get tired? I'm exhausted! Oh, I apologize for not noticing flowers in a wall sconce. But by the time I get to retire for the night, I can barely see straight! Even so, I still make an effort to smile!
Like smiling is so hard.
I-I-I'm sure that's not what Princess Luna meant to say.
Is that what exhausts you? Smiling and being adored by everypony?
And you have it so much worse, do you?! You've spent your evenings flitting around giving ponies lovely dreams! Oh, it sounds just awful!
[chuckles] Okay! I feel like we should step back, take a deep breath...
Don't presume to know what it is like to govern the dream realm!
And yet you know exactly what it's like to be me?! Oh, please!
Enough!
[gasps] What have you done?!
I... went with my gut?
Switch our cutie marks back this instant!
My apologies, your majesties! But I can't, even if I wanted to. The spell lasts twenty-four hours. I-It may have been extreme, but, uh, I think it's still a good idea?
[serious] What?
Y-You said it yourselves! Neither of you believes your sister knows how hard it is to be you. So this is your chance to prove it.
Well, I could use an easy day followed by a good night's sleep.
You can try. I haven't had an easy day in, well, ever! But now, I get to sleep, and tonight will be a breeze. All right, Starlight Glimmer. We will do this.
I'm gonna stop talking now.
[hyperventilating] You switched their cutie marks?! The actual princesses' cutie marks?!
[groans] I thought we moved past this. It was the right call! I hope.
Are you okay in there?
I-I'm good! Just, uh... reading an exciting book! [whispering to Twilight] He's gonna think I'm nuts!
He's not the only one.
As you can see, Celestia and I are switching places today.
I assure you, I am more than capable of handling all of Celestia's, heh, duties. Dismissed.
So, what is first on my dear sister's to-do list?
It says you have a few public appearances. Store openings, judging the royal rose contest... You know, that sort of thing.
[chuckles] Oh, I knew today would be easy, but I didn't think it would be that easy.
"Princess Luna Unhappy with Student Fundraiser"? But I wasn't unhappy!
Um, you are scowling.
Well, I-I didn't mean to! I've been smiling all day! My cheeks hurt! I stopped for one second! And that's when he took the picture!
Guess smiling all day isn't as easy as you thought?
It says here that, because of me, the school didn't raise enough funds to go on their field trip! I-I didn't mean for that to happen!
I know. But you can't dwell on that now. According to the list, some delegates are about to arrive for a luncheon. You need to dispel rumors of timberwolves in the White Tail Woods. The nearby towns have been in a state of panic for weeks.
B-B-But I have to fix this!
You can't. You need to put on a brave face and help these ponies. It's what Celestia would do.
[deep breath, shouting] Hello! Great news! There are no timberwolves!
No, there are definitely timberwolves!
I'm sorry. But I couldn't stop thinking about those poor students. Normally, I have all the time in solitude I need to work through my problems at my own pace.
Well, your sister doesn't get that luxury.
[muffled] The princess will definitely side with me!
[simultaneous, muffled] Please see reason, Mayor Cream Cheese! I'm telling you, Baltimare...
Ready for the town hall?
Glad that's settled.
[chuckles] And it only took three hours.
That got heated, didn't it?
Still on for golf?
Oh, absolutely.
You made it to the end of the day. Yay?
Oh, hello, Starlight. I don't know about you, but I feel very well-rested. Where's Luna?
Um, uh, she already turned in for the night.
Did she now? It seems my duties were harder than my sister expected.
Moon raised! It's even easier than raising the sun. [chuckles] What's next?
All right. Everypony's asleep. You're talking to yourself, Celestia. Heh. But there's nopony else to talk to! [chuckles] Yet. I can talk to ponies in their dreams!
Now, to save some ponies from their nightmares. Which aren't real, so it shouldn't be too hard, right? Right. Good call, Celestia! And I'm talking to myself again.
[in Celestia's voice] I care. I care. I care. [distorted] I care.
[screaming] Ugh! No!
This is big! Like, really big!
Starlight! I'm here now. Tell me what's wrong.
[panting] Going with my gut was the wrong call! I was supposed to bring you two closer together! But I've only driven you apart! If you two can't see why you need each other, then—!
Don't worry, Starlight. I know how to handle Nightmare Moon.
This can't be!
If Luna can turn into Nightmare Moon, you can absolutely turn into me — Daybreaker! The better, prettier, and more powerful version of you!
No! I'll never turn into you!
Deep inside, you know how powerful you are. You don't need Luna.
That's not true! Even when we were apart, I knew I needed her!
[laughs] Oh, please! You don't need anypony! You can do whatever you want. And all you have to do is get rid of anypony who stands in your way!
I never should've banished you to the moon! I should've destroyed you!
No, you can't do that! Day, night, sun, moon — Equestria needs both of you!
Without balance, there's no harmony!
Ugh!
You can't get rid of me so easily, sister! Unless you plan on smiling me to smithereens!
Enough!
[laughs] I told you I was more powerful than you!
Ugh. So much black. We get it. You're sad. You could really use some... sun!
This is all my fault! I never should've gone on this mission! Now Equestria is doomed!
[singsongy] That smile's too wide... It's obviously not real...
Why don't you want us to go on our field trip?
[through teeth gaps] I don't...!
I mean, I do!
[singsongy] That smile's too wide... It's obviously not real...
Celestia! I'm so glad you're...!
[speaking normally] I've seen a lot, but I haven't seen this before.
It's Starlight Glimmer's. She's afraid this is what will happen if we continue to fight!
[sobbing] What was I thinking?! I'm never going with my gut again!
If you don't fix this soon, it could have a grave consequence on Starlight's psyche.
But my magic isn't powerful enough! I thought if we worked together...!
I have your magic, remember? It doesn't work in the dream realm. It has to be you!
Oh, Luna, I can't do this! I was wrong! Your job is so incredibly hard! You have to battle nightmares and work in the darkness and do it all alone! It takes such a brave, strong pony to do what you do!
And that pony is you. I walked a day in your shoes. I thought all you had to do was smile and be adored all the time, but I was wrong. There is so much more to it than that.
[screams] Ugh!
Don't do this to each other!
In order to defeat Daybreaker, you need only to trust in your strength as I do.
You can't destroy me! I'm everything you want to be!
No, you're not! You are not real, and you will never exist again!
You did it!
Only because you were here. I don't know how you do this alone.
So, um, did you talk to yourself?
Um, a little.
Is this really happening, or is this still a dream?
Welcome back, sister! I know you had a long night, so I made you some pancakes!
Oh! Heh. H-How... eh, nice. Ahem. [chews, gags, gulps] They're... delicious. Heh. Thank you.
[laughs] I know that face! They're not. I know you have to be perfect for everypony else, and you do an amazing job. But you don't have to do it for me.
In that case, they are terrible!
I know!
[sighs] But it means a lot that you tried. I love you, sister.
I love you too.
So... this was real. [yawns] Or... was it not real, and this just happened now and-and not in my dream? I'm so confused.
[laughing] It's all real. It was the right call going with your gut.
The map was wise to send you, Starlight. Nopony else would have been so bold as to do what you did.
That's a nice way of saying I came dangerously close to messing everything up.
It was just what we needed. The experience has made us closer than ever.
Wait. I'm not doing this.
I believe that one means your mission is complete.
Wow! I can't wait to tell Twilight!
[quickly] I already know! I mean, I don't know everything. I just got here to bring you your toothbrush! So this is just a friendly visit! Not interfering because I was worried! I wasn't! I knew you could do it, and I'm so, so, so, so, so proud of you! Tell me everything! Start from after I hyperventilated, and don't leave out any details!
Oh, uh, by the way, there's a field trip you need to make happen and a – ahem – timberwolf issue you need to address.
W-What?
Oh! Look! There's the sun! Time for me to turn in!
Oh, wow! Oh, my gosh!
Oh-my-gosh-oh-my-gosh-oh-my-gosh-oh-my-gosh! Oh-my-gosh-oh-my-gosh-oh-my-gosh! Sorry, Applejack!
Twilight! Twilight! Where are you?!
I'm in here, Pinkie! What is it?
You'll never guess what I just got!
Is everythin' okay? We heard a lot of "oh-my-gosh"-in', and we weren't sure if it was a good thing or a bad thing.
A good thing!
[reading] "To pink pony who lives with baked goods." It's from the yaks! [reading] "Yaks cordially invite pink pony to Yickslurbertfest. Come. Now."
Prince Rutherford is officially inviting me to Yickslurbertfest in Yakyakistan!
What is Yickslurbertfest?
It's a sacred yak holiday. How did you get Prince Rutherford to invite you?
I subtly hinted for an invitation in my letters to him.
[voiceover] May I please come to Yickslurbertfest? Pretty please? Pretty please? Pretty please? Pretty-pretty-pretty-pretty-pretty please?!
You know, we still don't know a lot about the yaks. So I think you should definitely go to Yickslurbertfest, Pinkie.
Fostering friendships is what ponies do.
I won't let you down! It's an honor to be the official friendship ambassador to the yaks!
Um, that's not an official position.
Yet. You're the princess of friendship. [singsongy] You can make it happen.
Okay, you got it.
Ahem? You have to make it official!
[sighs] Right. I hereby make Pinkie Pie the official friendship ambassador to the yaks!
This is officially the most exciting day of my life!
Yoo-hoo! Gummy! Pay attention! We're in the middle of an official friendship ambassador road trip game!
That's better. Okay. I spy with my official friendship eye something that is blue!
[gasps] We're here! Oh, and by the way, the answer was sky. I win!
Yeah, I know. That was a hard one, Gummy. You're the best official friendship travel companion ever!
What is going on?
Yaks destroy!
Yaks destroy!
Yikes!
[laughs] Pink pony!
It's an honor to [grunts] be here, prince. Uh, did something terrible happen? Is Yickslurbertfest cancelled?!
No! This Yickslurbertfest, where yaks come together to stomp.
Ohhhhh. I didn't know that was part of the sacred holiday. So this angry display of destruction is part of the festivies. Huh. And here I thought you yaks were just in a bad mood.
No. Stomping relaxes yaks. [grunting] Yaks' head never been so clear.
Stop!
Pink pony better check self before wreck self. That is century-old sacred yak twig, passed down from generation to generation.
[gasps] Oh, no! I'm so sorry! I was just trying to get into the spirit of Yickslurbertfest. [distressed noises] Maybe I can fix it!
Phew! Oh, you sure did, Prince Rutherford. [chuckles, to Gummy] That was a close one, Gummy! This trip has to be perfect! After all, we're not just visiting as friends. We're on official friendship ambassador business!
Less talking, more stomping!
Stompie-stompie-stompie-stompie!
Now, I take pink pony on Yakyakistan tour.
Thanks, Prince Rutherford, but, heh, I've been to Yakyakistan before.
Yak know. But thought pink pony might not recognize town since decorated for Yickslurbertfest.
Oh, yaks not just have eye for decorating. Yaks also amazing builders!
[gasps] No way! I thought you hired professional contractors!
Here. Uh, let me help you with that.
This ceremonial yak fire pit, where yaks tell stories.
Oooh! I have so much to officially tell the ponies when I get back.
This yak eating hut. Hut where yaks eat.
[slurp, chomp, gulp] Mmmm! The perfect balance of vanilla extract.
Yak sleeping hut. Hut where yaks sleep.
Huh!
Yak music hut. Hut where yaks enjoy beautiful music.
This is beautiful and—!
Shhh! Pink pony ruin with talking!
...And that how yaks defeat evil and save world!
[claps, in deep voice] Pink pony like yak story!
Ho-ho! Yak impressed! Pink pony can almost be honorary yak.
[speaking normally] Official friendship ambassador and honorary yak?! [squeals] Pink pony's title card is full! [in deep voice] Horn bump! [speaking normally] Oh, wait! I don't have a horn! [gasps] Prince Rutherford, can I get some honorary yak horns?
No. Yak horn too heavy for small pony head.
Yickslurbertfest stomp time!
Stomp harder! Yaks extra happy! Ponies and yaks friends!
Is this part of the festival?
Pink pony ask too many questions.
Everything is buried in snow! What are we gonna do?!
Uhhh... Y-Yaks fine! Snow falls from mountain all the time!
All the time?
Every Yickslurbertfest.
Okay. Avalanches like this completely bury all your homes every Yickslurbertfest? Really?
This is... big avalanche. But not a problem, for yaks are tough! Yaks dig through snow! Won't take long.
Oh, good. You have an emergency plan in place.
Here, let me help!
Whew. I'm tired. We must be almost done. There's still snow everywhere?!
Yaks keep digging!
Yaks stop digging! Make situation worse!
Okay. Don't worry, Prince Rutherford. I'll go back to Ponyville and ask for help. Twilight and the others will be happy to come dig the snow away. After all, "many hooves make light work." Right, Gummy?
Yaks no need pony help!
Oh. Well, I'm sure it'll be okay, 'cause you probably have a Plan B.
Yes. Yaks wait for snow to melt.
All this snow?! It'll take a thousand moons before it melts!
Yaks known for their patience.
Well... be that as it may, in the meantime, what will you eat? Where will you sleep?
Dah! Yaks can make this work! Hardship make yaks the strong yaks that yaks are! If pink pony disagrees, then she can leave Yakyakistan and never return!
[yelps] Uh, of course pink pony agrees with you! [nervous chuckle] Hey, let's try out some snow recipes! [grunting] Snow cakes! Snow spaghetti! Snow sandwiches! [nervous chuckle, chomp] Mmmm! Yaks can make this work!
[yawns] Yak tired. Yak retire to new sleeping hut.
[gulps] Snow cake good!
[chomp, gulp, shiver] Mmmm! Just the right balance of cold and water!
Aah! Stop! Yak eating new eating hut!
[whispering] Psst! Prince Rutherford. What are we doing?
It's obvious. This new music hut.
Oh. So we're swaying to—
Shhh! Pink pony ruin snow music with talking!
What was yak?
Yak stomach rumbles. Yak hungry.
Shhh! Prince yak will hear yak!
But snow worse than yak ever seen!
Yak know. Yak hungry, too.
[gasps] Gummy, did you hear that? They can't make it work!
Yaks stop swaying! Music over!
If Twilight and the others knew what was going on, they would be here to help in a pony's heartbeat. We have to convince Prince Rutherford that asking for help is okay. Will you help me, Gummy?
Thank you! And see? Asking you to help wasn't hard at all.
Pink pony has gathered you around the new ceremonial yak fire pit to tell you a story! A yak tradition, right?
Yay! This is a story about a group of... uh, goats!
[voiceover] Who lived in the desert. There was a sandstorm, and their entire village was buried in sand. There was nothing they could do. They knew they could not survive by only eating sand...wiches!
[giggles] Get it?
...Okay. Anyway...
[voiceover] Finally, the goats' brave, wise leader – let's just call him Prince... uh... Drutherford [giggles] – decides that they couldn't do it by themselves. So he asked the neighboring town of, uh, Bovineville to come help them. [giggles] Yeah! Cows! The magical cows helped the goats, everyone survived, and lived happily ever after!
Because they asked for help. The end!
So what is the moral of that story? Is it – A – asking for help is okay? B – asking for help saves the day? Or – C – asking for help is good for everypony?
D – goats weak and horrible! Magic bovines need to stay out of goats' business!
Um... [nervous chuckle] Not quite. Any yak wanna shout out another answer?
Hey, Prince Rutherford. I wanna talk to you about something. Uh, what are you doing?
Uh, yak's snow bed got a little melty last night.
Okay, yeah. That's what I wanna talk to you about. You know, these yak snow beds are the fluffiest I've ever slept in. They're so comfortable, you forget that it's just a cold block of ice. And the yak snow sandwiches? Mm-mmm! I hate it when food burns your mouth or overwhelms it with flavor!
Ah! Yak hates that, too!
You know who would really, really enjoy these snow sandwiches? Twilight Sparkle and the other ponies! Oh, hey! I have an idea! Why don't I go to Ponyville and bring them back here?
Ponies like snow sandwich?
Oh! Ponies love snow sandwiches! And hey, while they're here, you can ask if they'll clear the snow away. Fun, right?
When prince was little yak, prince stomped on ground too hard. Made deep hole and fell into hole. Ice froze over hole. Prince waved to friends and family from inside frozen hole. Waited for spring thaw. Prince survived on own.
W-W-Wait a minute. You spent the whole winter in a hole?
Yes. And yak never asked for help!
Okay. First of all, how did you make such a deep hole from stomping? And how did it freeze over so fast? And how could you see your family and friends to wave to them from inside a frozen hole? Even if all that was possible, how did you breathe in there?!
Yaks don't ask for help!
But the yaks are hungry! And who knows when the snow will melt? I just don't understand why—
Ah, yes. Is clear now that pink pony does not understand yaks. Honorary yak status rescinded! Bang! Pretend there is door! I just slammed it!
Fine! Be stubborn!
[groans] Those yaks are so stubborn! They refuse to ask for help, even though they need it! Well, this official friendship ambassador is gonna take matters into her own hooves! I'll show them!
[sighs] You're right, Gummy. I am too worked up. Road trip game would officially calm me down. I know! Let's play Twenty Million Questions! You think of something, then I'll ask you twenty million questions until I can come up with what you're thinking of! Let's go! Is it blue? Is it green? Is it red? Is it greenish-red? Is it reddish-blue? Is it bigger than a bread box? Is it smaller than a bread box? Is it a bread box? Is it bread?
...Is it teeth? Is it Granny Smith's dentures? Is it you? Is it a rooster? Is it a red rooster? Is it a red rooster eating corn? Ah! Used up all twenty million questions! Oh, well. We're here anyway.
Official pony balloon still here? Pink pony gone because pink pony not tough like yaks! Horn bump in agreement! Now!
[chomp, chewing] Pleh! Snow sandwich lose novelty! Snow couscous for dinner!
Then Prince Rutherford said, [imitating Prince Rutherford] "Bang! Pretend there is door! I just slammed it!"
Pinkie Pie—
So then pink pony said, [high-pitched] "Fine! Be stubborn!"
Pinkie Pie, we have to help the yaks.
So in conclusion, we have to help the yaks!
Hmm?
Just go with it, hon.
Great idea, Pinkie. We'll be happy to help the yaks. This is what friendship is all about.
Hey! I'll bring apples. This season's batch are extra juicy.
And I shall provide the yaks with Equestria's finest textiles. They'll be silky and warm with hints of gold to complement their horns—
Stop! We can't bring the yaks any pony stuff!
Why not?
The yaks are very proud. They won't ask for help. You know what they say – "you can lead a yak to water, but you better not let him know you're doing it."
Nopony says that. Do they?
Okay then. This'll be an official covert friendship mission.
Applejack, Fluttershy, Mm-hmm!
You got it!
Is it yellow? Is it slimy? Is it slimy yellow?
We're not playing that!
These walls are high. Sneaking in will not be easy.
Or it's super-easy 'cause I'm awesome.
Go ahead! I'll catch up! You all know what to do!
[yawns, gasps] What happened?!
Snow melted! Prince Rutherford was right!
[laughs] Yaks tough! Yaks wait patiently! Yaks win!
Hoo-wee! Helpin' to fix an entire yak village sure takes a lot outta ya.
Let's get out of here before—
Oh, pink pony!
[nervous gasping] Just play it cool! [to Prince Rutherford] We didn't help fix Yakyakistan! [nervous chuckle] No, no! We're just here for the snow sandwiches! But then we got here, and the snow was gone, so we thought we'd hit a diner on our way back to Ponyville! Bye-bye!
Wait. Yak not mad at pink pony.
Yak not?
Pink pony help yaks without yaks asking. Means pink pony understand yaks.
I do? Huh! I do!
Pink pony the best kind of friend. Officially honorary yak!
Yippee! My own honorary yak horns! Now I can officially horn-bump! Whoa!
Yeah... You know, this is a little heavy for my small pony head.
[chuckles] Need some help with that, Pinkie Pie?
[deep voice] Pink pony no need apple pony's help! [giggling and snorting, normally] Just kidding! Pink pony got apple pony good!
Seriously, this is heavy.
Care for a carrot-ginger sandwich?
Oh! You remembered to cut off the crusts for me.
Of course I did. I know how you like them.
You really do make the best finger foods.
What do you say?
Discord' [high-pitched] Excuse me.
[scoffs] I really can't take them anywhere.
Can I trouble you for another sugarcube?
Oh, no. I'm so sorry, but I seem to be out.
Well, I can just pop us in some more.
Oh, that's all right. I need to go to the market anyway. I have to restock my pantry for our tea party next week.
Oh. I never realized how much work you put into hosting these tea parties.
Oh, it's really not that much.
No, no, no, no, no! I've been taking advantage of your hospitality for far too long. It's high time I do something about it. What to do, what to do...
Why don't you host the next tea party?
I've got it! Why don't I host the next tea party at my place?
Hey, that's my idea.
Why didn't I see that coming?
Are you sure? I wouldn't want you to go through any trouble.
Then count me in. I'm already looking forward to it.
Me, too! I'm so excited! I can't wait! No, really, I can't! How about we have the tea party tomorrow afternoon?
Sounds good to me. You know, Discord, I've never been to your house before.
Well, that's okay, because I've never hosted a tea party before.
Oh! I've never hosted a tea party before! So much to do! [sips tea] Thank you so much for the tea and nibblies, but I really must be going!
Uh, Discord? Before you go, would you mind helping me tidy up?
There you go. Back to normal, just the way you like it. See you tomorrow!
I can't wait!
Okay. Since Fluttershy always goes out of her way to host the perfect tea party for me, how do I make my tea party for her even more perfect?
I'm sorry, dearie. Were you talking to me?
Actually, madam, I'm talking to myself.
Well, I'm not talking to you!
It's for Fluttershy!
Oh, all right. No more holes, though. [snaps fingers] You have to knock this tea party out of the park for her. She was our first friend, after all.
You don't have to tell me that. She gave us a chance when no other pony would.
She makes us want to be a better draconequus. Fluttershy deserves the best of everything.
Of course! I should get her the best of everything. Why didn't I think of that? ...Well? Are you going to answer me or not?
Me? Uh, I thought you were talking to...
Excuse me. Is this where Fluttershy usually buys her tea?
"Jasmine Leaf": Why, yes, it is.
Oh, wonderful! I'll be enjoying her company tomorrow, so I will be needing your very best tea, please. Something especially special.
"Jasmine Leaf": I'm sure Fluttershy would enjoy some of our rose hip green tea.
[chuckling] Oh, interesting. Does it decorate your hips in roses or turn you green?
"Jasmine Leaf": Uh... neither? It just tastes good.
How boring. Pass. Hold on! Ginseng tea! Now that sounds promising. What does it sing? I'm partial to something upbeat and jazzy.
"Jasmine Leaf": Again, it's just tasty like all of our tea here.
So... all of this is just tea you simply drink?
"Jasmine Leaf": Uh-huh.
[laughs] Singing ginseng! I'll take it!
"Jasmine Leaf": Are you sure you're friends with Fluttershy? You seem so very different from her.
Well, of course we're friends! She gets me, and you obviously do not! [imitating "Jasmine Leaf"] "Are you sure you're friends with Fluttershy?" [scoffs] The very nerve!
I'm sorry. Do you validate?
Hello!
"Raspberry Vinaigrette": [yelps] Uh, can I help you find something?
Yes, you can. Your finest tea set, please. I want only the best for my friend Fluttershy.
"Raspberry Vinaigrette": Uh... you're friends with Fluttershy?
Yes... judgy... clerk... pony! Why is it such a surprise? Sure, she's on the quieter side, and I'm a bit, well, more showy. But I'll have you know we're besties. And that's why I need the [echoing] best tea set!
"Raspberry Vinaigrette": Uh, perhaps then you'd be interested in our classic tea-for-two set.
A teapot that just pours tea? How positively dreadful!
"Raspberry Vinaigrette": But that's all teapots are supposed to do.
Now, let's see. I have the perfect tea and the perfect tea service. What else do I need for the perfect tea party? Oh! Decorations, of course!
[chuckles] Better. Oh! I'll need napkins. I'll simply make them... ah, well, I could... or... No. I've got nothing. How do I make these better? What should I do? Make them... [gasps, snaps fingers] Make them glow! Oh, that's not good enough for Fluttershy. Should I make them fly? Glow, fly, and [chuckles] and fold! Glow, fly, fold into fun shapes, perhaps?
Uh, Discord? Are you okay?
Pinkie Pie! Just the pony I need. [snaps fingers] As the party pony and Fluttershy's close – but not best – friend, I need your advice. I'm hosting a tea party for her, and it has to be perfect. No! It has to be even better than perfect!
Oh, Discord. You're waaaaaay overthinking things. All you have to do is make Fluttershy feel comfortable. It should be pretty easy for you. You know her so well!
And that's why you're the party expert. Thank you, Pinkie Pie. I feel so much better now.
Eh, it's what I do.
[to Cherry Fizzy] Excuse me! Where can I find the glowing, flying, self-folding napkins?
Make Fluttershy feel comfortable, make Fluttershy feel comfortable, comfortable, comfortable... Well, I mean, that shouldn't be a problem.
Oh, dear. That might be a problem.
Maybe it's not as bad as I think. Maybe Fluttershy would be comfortable having a tea party here.
Maybe I just need another set of eyes on this. What do you think?
That bad?
No, worse! Fluttershy would never be comfortable here! What have you done?!
Relax! We can fix this. Time to call in the team.
Okay, chief. What's the plan?
What to do, what to do, what to do... Oh!
Got it! We know Fluttershy, and we know what she likes. First of all, we need to get rid of all the new stuff.
You heard him! Strike the new stuff!
Bleh!
Piñatas hate bats.
Enjoy your all-expense-paid trip around Equestria!
Well done, everybody, but there's still more work to do.
We need to make this place more Fluttershy and less, well, me.
And I'm almost certain she likes stairs...
...that lead somewhere.
Phew!
How boring. I mean, normal.
Thank you!
Good job. The window treatments are perfectly unexceptional.
But we're not done yet.
You don't mean...
Mm-hmm.
Makeover!
Hating it. Hating it. Hating it. Hating... how much I love it!
Okay, let's give these conversation cards a whirl. [clears throat, reading] "It is very nice to see you today." "Have you read any good books lately?" "Your garden looks positively lovely."
Huh. Quite strange. For the first time in my life, I don't feel quite strange. In fact, I feel... completely normal. Everything is finally perfect for Fluttershy.
Discord! I'm so excited to finally see where you live!
G-Greetings, friend. Please do come in.
I can't wait to see how... uh... Oh.
Is something amiss?
Um, no, no, not at all. It's just not what I expected. It's quite... lovely.
Please have a seat.
Where is it?
Right here.
Oh.
I think you'll be quite pleased with the green tea I've selected for us today.
Oooh! Does it actually turn us green? Is it really envious of the other teas? What's it do, what's it do?!
Uh, well, it tastes delicious.
Oh... Okay.
What particularly nice weather we're having.
Yes... Yes, we are.
[sips tea] It did rain the other day, however.
Uh-huh...
But the weather today is particularly nice. ...As I previously mentioned. Would you care for some milk toast?
Uh, Discord, you don't seem to be yourself today. Are you feeling all right?
Whatever do you mean?
Well, it's just... what you're wearing. And also what you're saying. And also the way you're saying it. And, um, pretty much everything else.
Oh, dear Fluttershy, worry not. I can assure you that for the first time, I'm feeling perfectly normal. Now, let me top you off.
Oops! Butterfingers! How embarrassing.
Uh, what's going on?
I have... no idea.
[gasps] Discord! You're starting to fade away!
Huh. Have you tried the scones? They're positively delectable. The secret is in the extra butter.
What is wrong with you?! You're acting so normal, which is not so normal for you!
Well, whatever do you mean? This is just me being me.
No, it's not! It's you being like everypony else!
Eeeek! The more you do it, the more you fade away! Of course! You're a creature of pure chaos! Being normal is destroying you!
[laughs] How interesting. That reminds me of something I heard at the market today.
Stop it! Please! You need to go back to being your not-normal normal self! Quick, Discord! Uh, do something chaotic before it's too late! Please!
Do something chaotic? I'll try...
Ohhhh, that's not good...
Oh, no! I tipped over that cup! That's pretty chaotic, right?
[whimpers] What if I... [chomping, mouth full] Oh, my! Talking with food in my mouth after taking a bite from every sandwich! [gulps] How wacky! Doing anything for ya?
[whimpers] Okay. Hmm. Maybe I need to start thinking like you. Ohhh... What would Discord do? Well, I guess he'd probably make another version of himself to bounce ideas off of.
But one wouldn't be enough. He'd need more! Way more!
[to her reflections] Hey there, Fluttershys! Any ideas on how to Discord up this tea party? [higher-pitched] Hi, Fluttershy! Thanks for asking! First of all, you gotta redecorate this place. I mean, this is where Discord lives! And you're telling me there aren't any stairs that lead to nowhere? [speaking normally] On it!
Better... but it still needs something. Now, that's more like it!
[gasps] It's working! Okay, what else? Furniture on the ground? So predictable! Let's put them where they don't belong!
And he'd have a chaise lounge that would actually chase you! Because he's funny like that! Bet you can't catch me!
Oh! And Discord would have a special kind of tea! Like a ginseng that could really sing!
And he'd serve it on a floating table! We never talked about it, but I'm pretty sure Discord hates gravity!
[laughs] Now this is exactly what I was hoping for!
This is what you were hoping for? But this is the complete opposite of your tea parties.
I wouldn't expect you to throw a tea party the way I would. We're different!
I know. I was afraid that if you saw exactly how different we are, you wouldn't want to be friends anymore.
What?! Why would you ever think that?
Because you and I don't make sense to anypony else.
That may be true, but we make sense to me. I never would've thought to make singing ginseng before I met you. But you've opened me up to so many more possibilities and impossibilities. So I guess what I'm trying to say is I like you because you're so different from me.
You do?
Of course I do, silly! Besides, what's discord without a little chaos?
[chuckling] Well! In that case, I certainly don't need to be wearing this.
Oops! [laughs] I forgot that I still had this on!
[giggling] Now, about that tea party...
You know, your garden really is looking lovely.
Why, thank you for noticing. I also couldn't help but notice that you need a refill.
Gesundheit.
It really is nice having you here.
I'm happy to be here. And I really do like your place. Because it's so you.
Why, thank you, Fluttershy.
Now, how about we try some of those delicious-looking sandwiches?
[chuckles] You read my mind!
Hmmm.
[gasps] Thank you! You must be new. I'm Apple Bloom.
I'm Grand Pear.
Welcome to Ponyville!
[scoffs] You mean welcome back to Ponyville. Grand Pear was originally from here before he opened his famous pear jam store in Vanhoover.
Really? Why'd ya move back?
I, uh... [smacks lips] Well, I needed a change of pace.
Huh. [chomps] This is delicious! [chomps] I can't believe I've gone my whole life without ever havin' this.
Glad you like it.
How much?
Nah.
Wow! Thanks, Mr. Grand Pear, sir! It was real nice meetin' you!
Glad you're back, sugarcube. Just in time for breakfast for dinner.
I got the perfect topper for flapjacks at the market today.
[gasps] Pear jam?! What were you thinkin'?!
Quick! Hide it!
Huh?
What's the big deal? It's just pear jam.
The big deal is that there is a long-standing feud between the Apples and the Pears!
Eeyup!
Why?
Why?! ...Well, uh, a-actually, I-I'm-I'm not really sure. You have any idea, Big Mac?
Uhhh... nope.
Then I guess we should ask Granny?
Ask me what?
Uh, what goes better with apple fritter flapjacks – caramel syrup or praline!
[blows raspberry] Praline.
[sniffs] Oh-ho-ho, that smells great, Applejack. I'ma go wash up for supper. Be right back.
Listen, sugarcube. Anytime Big Mac and I ever asked Granny about the feud or the Pears, she'd get so upset she couldn't talk. Best not bring it up.
O-Okay, but that Grand Pear was really nice to me, even though I'm an Apple. I wonder what happened.
Me, too. But if we can't ask Granny, I don't know who— We can ask Goldie Delicious! If anypony knows about the feud, it's the family historian!
I'm in! What do you say, Big Mac? Siblin' trip first thing tomorrow?
Eeyup!
Now, that's how you make an entrance! Or is it an exit? [laughs] Well, anyway, it's so wonderful to see you three. To what do I owe the pleasure?
Well, Goldie, we were hopin' you could tell us about the, uh... feud with the Apples and the Pears.
Oh. Oh, dear. Well, does Granny Smith know you're here?
No, ma'am. But I ran into Grand Pear yesterday, and he was real nice. Maybe the feud was a misunderstandin' or somethin', and we can fix it?
Oh, well, I don't know about that, little one. But if it's a story you're after, I suppose you have a right to know. Now, let's see, I got a stack of books here someplace... Oh! Apple Family History, Volume 137! Hmm, hmm... Here we are. "Feud with the Bears". I mean, "Pears". My eyes ain't what they used to be. A long time ago, Sweet Apple Acres wasn't the only farm in Ponyville. In fact, there was another one just right next door.
Come and get your apples! Nothin' sweeter than bitin' into a crisp apple on a beautiful fall day!
Unless, of course...
...you could bite into a juicy pear.
[scoffs] Please. Pears are just what happens when you ain't no good at farmin' apples.
[voiceover] And so it went. Granny and Grand Pear were always at each other on who was the best farmer or who took better care of their trees. If Granny read to her trees at night...
[reading] "And then, the little tree reached his branches up to the moon, and the moon said, 'Good night.'"
[voiceover] ...why, then Grand Pear had special blankets made for his trees so they wouldn't get cold.
Good night, trees. [kisses] I've got you covered. Mm-hmm.
[voiceover] In fact, all the Apples and the Pears were rivals to the core! The only Apple and Pear who ever got along were Bright McIntosh and Pear Butter.
[whispering] Pssst! I'm not supposed to talk to you.
[whispering] I'm not supposed to talk to you either.
[whispering] My mom says if you hold a buttercup under your chin, it'll make your chin glow. But it doesn't work on me. See?
[whispering] Does it work on me?
It sure does, Buttercup.
Buttercup. I like that name.
[voiceover] Wait an apple-pickin' minute!
Bright Mac and Buttercup? Those are our parents' names!
Of course Buttercup was just a nickname your father gave your mother. Pear Butter – well, that was her given name.
Are you sayin' our mother was a... Pear?!
So we are half-Pear?!
I can't believe it! How did we not know?!
Well, uh, nopony called your mother Pear Butter.
And her cutie mark was a preserve jar, but pear butter don't look too much different from apple butter, so no clues there.
[sighs] Is there a-anythin' else you can tell us about them?
Anything else?
Hmm... I'd need Volume 138 for that.
I'm sure I could wrangle it... in a, in a couple of days.
[sighs] That's all right, Goldie. It was... nice just to hear—
Ooh-hoo-hoo! I just remembered somethin'! Your dad and his buddy Burnt Oak would get in all kinds of trouble together as colts.
Burnt Oak? The firewood salespony? I haven't seen him in ages.
He and your dad were thick as thieves back in the day. Y'all should talk to him.
Well, well, if it isn't the Apples. What can I do for ya? I know you're not here for firewood. You got more trees than anypony in Ponyville.
You're right. We're not here for that.
Come to ask about your dad?
Uh, eeyup.
I wondered if you might. Hoped you would. It's nice to talk about him. [laughs] We had a lot of laughs. In fact, this one time...
[voiceover] ...we were racin' to see who could till the fastest, and Bright Mac was leavin' me in the dust. He would've won, too, if he wasn't so... distracted.
Whoa!
Oh!
Pear Butter, what did you do?!
I-I'm not sure.
She didn't do it, sir.
Excuse me?
The water silo. It was my fault.
[snorts] You owe me a new silo, boy! [to Pear Butter] And you, come with me. No daughter of mine is gonna make goo-goo eyes at an Apple!
Grand Pear never would've known it was your father's fault. But there was no way he'd let your mother take the blame for somethin' he did.
So Dad was super honest! Apple doesn't fall far from the tree, huh, Applejack?
Your dad worked the Apple farm all day and then headed over to the Pears on his breaks to fix the water silo. I didn't see him for weeks! Not that he minded. Gave him a chance to get to know your mom.
Did you know our mom, too?
Buttercup was a real peach of a Pear. But if you want to know more about her, you should ask Mrs. Cake.
Mrs. Cake?
She and your mom were inseparable when they were fillies.
Then let's go! Thanks, Burnt Oak!
Uh, would it be okay if we stopped by again sometime to hear more stories?
I'd like that very much.
Mrs. Well, cinnamon sugar on toast! All three Apple siblings!
Hi, Mrs. Cake. We heard you and our ma used to be real good friends, and we were hopin' you could tell us a bit about her.
Mrs. Oh, I would love to. I never knew the right time to bring it up. But I'm so glad you came! [laughs] Uh, for starters, did you all know that it was your mom who convinced me to pursue baking?
But isn't your name Mrs. Cake?
Mrs. Not always. Back when I was Chiffon Swirl, heh, I had no idea what I was supposed to do. But one day, your mom brought me some candied pears, eggs, flour, sugar, and vanilla, and told me to just be creative! Next thing I knew, I was whipping up pear upside-down cake, and I got my cutie mark! It was like she knew what I was supposed to do long before I did.
[to Apple Bloom] Just like you, sugarcube! Or rather, you're just like her!
Mrs. That was the first of many cakes for me, and Buttercup was with me through it all.
Mrs. [voiceover] She'd be my taste-tester, help with the decorating, and prep new ingredients. Over the years, I perfected my recipes. Your mom did so much for me. One day, I wanted to surprise her with a cake.
[sniffs] Achoo!
[gasps] Oh. It's just you.
Sorry. I just brought you a little something to say thank you. But I see you're busy. Hah.
[giggles] Promise you won't say anything?
You and Bright Mac? Whew, I wouldn't believe it if I hadn't seen it with my own eyes. Your families hate each other.
I can't help it. We just sorta... happened.
Mrs. [voiceover] Then Pear Butter told me the sweetest love story I have ever heard.
Happy one hundred and thirty-one thousand, four hundred and fifty-six hour anniversary, darlin'.
What? [laughs] That's way longer than we've been together.
I know, but it's the anniversary of the first time I called you "Buttercup". It's okay if you didn't get me anythin'.
Actually... I did.
A guitar? For me? But... [strums guitar] I don't know how to play.
Quiet, you.
We're far apart in every way But you're the best part of my day And sure as I breathe the air I know we are the perfect pair
On a prickly path that goes on for miles But it's worth it just to see you smile
And I cannot be pulled apart From the hold you have on my heart And even if the world tells us it's wrong You're in my head like a catchy song
Wow. It's just... wow.
Do you like it? Be honest now.
It's the best gift you could've given me!
The seasons change and leaves may fall But I'll be with you through them all And rain or shine, you'll always be mine
On a prickly path that goes on for miles You're the only one who makes it all worthwhile
And you should not blame me, too If I can't help fallin' in love with you...
Hey, no fair. I was gonna tell you the same thing.
You're just mad I beat you to it.
I'm tellin' ya, I was gonna pull you up, cover your eyes, lead you over here... and say, "Surprise!" And then you'd say, [imitating Pear Butter] "Oh, Bright Mac, I love it!" [speaking normally] And then I'd say I love you. Too bad it didn't work out though.
Eeyup. Too bad.
The Pears are moving!
I mean, I figured the Pears moved, but I didn't know all that stuff happened before with Granny and Grand Pear.
It must've been really hard on our parents.
Mrs. Oh, it was.
We're moving?! To Vanhoover?! But that's so far!
It's what's best. There's acres of untouched land and a warehouse to make our jams. We'll get to expand our business and get away from those gosh-darned Apples.
Mrs. [voiceover] Pear Butter was devastated. But seeing no way out of it, she did what she had to do.
So that's it?
What do you want me to do, Bright Mac? We're movin'. I love you, but [tearing up] I have to stay with my family.
Mrs. [voiceover] Then Bright Mac did the most romantic thing I've ever seen anypony do.
What?! What?!
[simultaneous] What?! What did he do?!
[simultaneous] Tell us! Tell us!
Mrs. We're gonna need one more pony to tell that story.
Mayor Mare, you knew our parents?
Not as well as Mrs. Cake, but I did play a part in their love story. The night before the Pear family moved, Bright Mac asked me to meet him at the edge of Sweet Apple Acres.
I don't want to be apart from you. Ever. I'm not sure what we'll do, but I'm sure of us. So sure that I'd marry you today.
I would, too!
I think that's my cue.
[voiceover] I had the honor of officiating your parents' secret wedding, and it was perfect. Bright Mac knew Buttercup wouldn't want a big splash.
[voiceover] Reminds me of somepony else I know.
[voiceover, chuckling] Eeyup.
[voiceover] So they had a special way to seal their vows.
I now pronounce you—
What is goin' on?! What's with all these here candles?!
Pear Butter! Where are ya? You're supposed to be packing! [grimly] What are you two doing?
Ma, Grand Pear, Buttercup and I are in love!
What?!
And we'll be married as soon as Mayor Mare says...
Oh! [quickly] I now pronounce you husband and wife!
What are you talking about, married?! You two can't be married!
Finally, something we can agree on. Pear Butter, enough of this nonsense. We're movin'! And you gotta stick with your family!
But... the Apples are my family now, too.
You can't be serious. Are you choosin' to be an Apple over being a Pear?!
Are you makin' me choose?
Yes. I am.
Then yeah. I guess I am.
Fine!
I can't believe Grand Pear just up and left Ma like that! No wonder Granny never told us about any of this.
Mrs. These things are never easy.
And it's hard to know when it is a good time.
It seems to me that now's as good a time as any.
To talk to both our grandparents.
Excuse me? Grand Pear?
I'm Applejack, and this here's Big McIntosh. But you already know who we are, don't ya?
Sure do.
Did you really move to Ponyville just for a change of pace?
No.
Then you came here because you're sorry and that you wanted to get to know us, too?
I'm... so sorry. I-I-I was just so angry, and... well, I-I never...
It's in the past, Grand Pear. Oh! Can I call you Grand Pear-Pear?
[chuckles] Sure can.
Now where'd you all get to? I ain't seen hide or hair of ya's all day.
We've been all over. Learnin' about our parents.
Guh... Y-You have?
And our grandfather.
So... you're back, huh?
Sure am. [mumbling] Never should've left.
Findin' you and learnin' all about Mom and Dad, I feel like I found a piece of me I didn't even know was missin'.
Hearin' their story makes me feel closer to them somehow.
I'm sorry. I should've told you all about 'em sooner.
And I should've been here. Ah, I can't believe I let a silly feud keep me from my family.
Nothing's keepin' ya from us now. Let's not miss anythin' else.
Applejack's right. Welcome back, prickly old pear. Heh.
[chuckles] Thanks, you old crabapple.
Now that we're all together, there's somethin' we want to show you. Mom and Dad left us somethin' to remember them by. Come on!
Whoa.
[sounds of awe] It's beautiful.
It's... impossible.
If anything's gonna make it through, it's apples and pears.
Oops! Sorry, Princess Twilight. That was meant for her. Incoming!
Whoa!
Toola Roola, Coconut Cream, what are you doing?!
That was meant for my ex-friend.
I'm not your ex-friend – you're my ex-friend!
Both of you, stop!
...So you see, friendship isn't always easy, but there's no doubt, it's worth fighting for.
[humming and hmm-ing] No... Aha! Here it is.
What is that?
Come on, Starlight, don't judge a book by its cover. This is the friendship journal my friends and I used to keep. It's filled with all the things we've learned, like: "Friendship isn't always easy, but there's no doubt, it's worth fighting for."
I'll judge a book by its cover just this once.
Thanks for coming, everypony. I've got a surprise for you.
What is it, Twilight? Do I need to prepare myself?
It's this!
Ugh, what is that thing? Why is it so smelly?
Wait a minute. [gasps] Is this our old friendship journal? I haven't seen this thing in forever!
Hoo-wee! It's lookin' a little, uh... overripe.
I'll say!
There's a smushed apple in Applejack's lessons.
Fluttershy's lessons are so small, you can barely read them.
I, uh, wanted to leave room for all of you.
I-I don't even know what this is.
It is called calligraphy, darling. If you're going to make words, at least make them fabulous.
Looks like you got a little aggressive with your friendship lessons, Rainbow Dash.
What can I say? When I learn something, I learn it hard.
[unimpressed] I found Pinkie's page.
[giggles] Well, I am surprised!
That wasn't the only surprise.
Ta-da! Starlight and I decided to make one for each of you!
That's amazin'! A perfect copy!
I learned the spell years ago when I needed to make copies of a certain— [long pause] [clears throat] ...manifesto.
[sniffs] Ahhh! Even better than a perfect copy.
Oh, I'd forgotten all about this lesson.
[laughing] Remember this one from when I helped Daring Do? "Never underestimate the power of friends who always got your back."
Aww, Cheese Sandwich! Party cannon! Ah! Birth-iversary!
After Twilight remembered the journal, I had so much fun reading all the stuff you've all learned, I just had to have my own copy.
And that brings me to the second part of the surprise. My idea. How would you girls feel about making our journal available for everypony? If we can get these lessons into other ponies' hooves, maybe they'll benefit from them.
Well, I think that's a great idea.
I'm in! Yay!
W-We always said we wanted to.
Sounds fabulous.
[laughing] I'm awesome.
Oh, yeah. Uh, good idea.
No! I don't wanna play with you anymore!
Why not?! You love playing hopskotch!
No, you do because you always win!
Hey, girls. Couldn't help but overhear. You might want to take a breather, maybe read Rainbow Dash's chapter on Rainbow Falls? It might help.
Sure, Princess.
Thanks, Twilight! The friendship journal's makin' us super popular!
Oh.
We were thinkin' of puttin' together a cutie mark summer camp. Now, everypony's definitely gonna sign up for it! This is gonna be awesome! [laughs] Cutie Mark Crusaders, whoo.
A cutie mark camp is a great idea.
Yeah, but the purpose of the journal isn't supposed to be marketing.
I just hope those foals actually learn something from our lessons.
They will! I'm sure ponies all across Equestria will— Whoa!
Uh, hello! Can I... help you?
We're here all the way from Fillydelphia because we got copies of your friendship journal!
Wow! How wonderful! What was your favorite friendship—
Will you sign them?!
Oh, uh, I guess so. So, what did you think of the lessons?
Oh, we haven't read them. These are keepsakes. We gotta keep them in mint condition. Ha-ha.
Oh.
Wow, that was worth the trip!
Don't worry, Twilight. I'm sure lots of other ponies are being inspired to be better friends.
Well, I for one found the journal terribly illuminating.
I agree. I'm seeing sides of these ponies I didn't know were there. I only wish they'd left Rarity out. She clearly doesn't belong in that book with the rest of them.
Oh, I know! Who does she think she is? Certainly she did a fine job setting up the Ponyville Days celebration, but does she really believe it was a success just because of her? [inconsiderate laughter] The nerve!
But that's not what she was saying! Rarity!
Oh, poor Rarity. She overheard all the mean things those ponies were saying. She must be devastated. I'm going after her.
Go ahead. I'm gonna have a chat with these two.
Rarity, wait!
Twilight! Isn't it amazing? Our journals are everywhere!
Pinkie, I've got to—
Ponies keep stopping by to tell me my entries are hilarious!
I even had somepony come all the way from Las Pegasus to say how much he liked my lessons!
I am so glad to hear some ponies are being inspired by the journal.
Hey, look! There's Pinkie Pie! The funny one!
Giggly feedback is the best kind!
Well, at least you're getting a positive reaction. I just saw Rarity, and I'm afraid this whole journal thing really upset her.
Aww, that's too bad.
Wait. That wasn't even funny.
O-kay. Well, I guess I'll catch you later.
Yup. Bye, Twilight!
Hah! Classic Pinkie! Oh, she's even funnier in real life!
You've known me for years!
Maybe it's time to call it a day.
"Princess Erroria": I wipped out all the Twilight Spawkle lessons 'cause they were getting in the way of the good ones.
What do you mean you skipped the lessons? We've all had valuable experiences.
Hey, here's a great idea! Why don't you guys talk to Twilight for a while? So I can get back to things like working and napping and, well, pretty much anything else.
"Princess Erroria": Aw, we don't wanna hear her bowing lessons! Come on! Tell us again about when you met Dawing Do!
[laughs nervously] Again? Haven't we already covered that one? A couple dozen times?
"Princess Erroria": We can't get enough of it! Come on, you don't want to disappoint your fans!
Uh... It's just that I, uh, really need to get those storm clouds back in their... pens.
"Princess Erroria": Oh, cool! We'll come along. You can tell us the stowy there.
Rainbow Dash! Rainbow Dash! Rainbow Dash!
Oh, what's going on now?
Please, just leave me alone!
Fluttershy, what's wrong?
We want answers!
"Lemon Chiffon": Yeah! We're entitled to know!
What is it, everypony?
"Lemon Chiffon": We wanna know why Fluttershy keeps learning the same thing over and over again! Be assertive already!
"Wisp": Even I've learned more than she has! Why can't I be in the book?!
What? Really?! Are you attacking my friend because you want to be in a book?!
It's okay. I got this, girls. [inhales] Listen up! I am more assertive! And yes, it took me a while to get there. But can you honestly say that you could learn something one time and completely change who you are? [beat] I didn't think so.
Wow. You're way different from the Fluttershy in the book. I don't know how I feel about that.
It feels like everypony in Equestria is missing the "friendship" part of the friendship journals.
What are you doing?
Why, I'm creating a gown, darling!
For what?
Stress-sewing?
When I overheard those two at the cafe, I suddenly understood why I've been getting cancellations for days!
What? Why are ponies cancelling their orders?
I'm sure if I go out there and talk to those ponies, they'll see that they're being unreasonable.
[panting] I need a hundred blankets, and I need 'em now! Sorry, Twilight.
Right away, pony-who-still-likes-me!
I don't need nothin' fancy.
What's the matter, Applejack?
I'm popular, Twilight! I'm popular, and I don't like it one bit!
You go ahead. I'll stay here.
Applejack, who are all these ponies?
They call themselves the Sweet Apple Admirers. They say they read my journal entries, and they felt like a part of the family. And now they actually wanna become part of the family!
Your journal entries?
Yeah, you know, all the stuff about how friends are like family and whatnot?
Can't you get rid of them?
And kick out my own family?! Granny Smith, hang on! Let me help!
There she is!
Yee-haw!
[sighs] I wish we'd never released that journal.
There you are! Okay, I just left Rarity. I think she's doing better, and— Oh, boy. Window-staring, huh? Was it that bad at Sweet Apple Acres?
It's bad everywhere. I thought I was doing something good. I thought I was helping. How could our friendship journal have led to so much... anti-friendship?!
Oh, Twilight, it's not your fault.
Of course it's my fault! If I hadn't had the big idea to make copies, none of this would be happening! I'm afraid I made life awful for my friends!
I really think you're being too hard on yourself.
Am I?!
I didn't know where else to go! I've got so much cookin' and cleanin' and family-in' to do... I ain't got time for anythin' else!
At least ponies aren't laughing every time you talk! Not even I want to be funny all the time! I'm telling you, my days of hilariosity-ness-ness are over!
You think you've got problems? I know I'm awesome, but I can't even go to the bathroom without somepony trying to tell me how cool I am! [beat] Uh, Rarity? What are you wearing?
My emotions, darling! Stress couture!
I don't know what I'm gonna do if I have to defend myself one more time!
Hmm? Oh, uh, sorry, darling. Force of habit.
Okay, so maybe they are having a hard time with it. That doesn't mean you did anything wrong.
Yes, I did! Releasing the journal was my idea, and it backfired in ways I could never have imagined!
It's not your fault. It's everypony else's! They're just focusing on the wrong things, and— [gasps] Wait here! I've got an idea!
I can't wait any longer. I've got to fix this.
Everypony, please stop!
Princess Twilight, I'm with the Canterlot Chronicle. Quick question — what would you say to ponies who wonder why you moved to Ponyville in the first place?
I moved here to learn about friendship. That's why the journal even exists. It took some time for me to get the hang of it, but it was each of these ponies standing next to me who taught me the lessons in those journals. Applejack, Pinkie Pie, Rainbow Dash, Rarity, and Fluttershy, too. Then it was all of you. I've learned so much from—
What I mean is, some ponies would argue that it doesn't seem believable that the six of you would be friends.
"Believable"?
Well, sure. I read this journal cover to cover, and I have to say your character would have been much more interesting if she'd stayed in Canterlot.
My character?! We are real ponies! This journal is a record of things that actually happened to us! We made mistakes, and we learned from them!
What about Rarity? Are we really supposed to believe everything she wrote in there?
"Princess Erroria": That's why you wanna be Team Dash! She's the only one that didn't weally need to learn anything, because she was alweady so cool.
Twilight was better before she got wings!
"Lemon Chiffon": Fluttershy is just so painfully shy, it's hard to relate! I mean, come on!
Wait a minute, everypony!
Are Pinkie Pie and Applejack related or what?!
Listen to me! [amplified] Listen to me!
I never claimed to be perfect My mistakes are all written in ink None of us claimed to be perfect And it's sad if that's what you all think
Our flaws helped to make us special They bond us and keep us strong Our flaws are what brought us together So stop actin' like somethin's wrong
We're not flawless We're a work in progress We've got dents and we've got quirks But it's our flaws that make us work
Yeah, we're not flawless We're a work in progress So tell me what flaws you got, too 'Cause I still like what's flawed about you
They say I'm a big shot That my ego's the size of a whale My confidence comes off as cocky But it gives me the courage to fail
Sure, I can be a drama queen A bit stuck-up, it's true
And I can be too eager to please There's such thing as bein' too honest, too, 'cause
We're not flawless We're a work in progress We've got dents and we've got quirks But it's our flaws that make us work
Yeah, we're not flawless We're a work in progress So tell me what flaws you got, too 'Cause I still like what's flawed about you
Ponies think I'm all bubbles and laughter That I don't seem sincere I might joke around a little too much But I'm just so happy you're here
It took me a while to be confident To really come out of my shell
But nopony has to be perfect By now, don't you know us so well? Because, yeah
We're not flawless We're a work in progress We've got dents and we've got quirks But it's our flaws that make us work
Yeah, we're not flawless We're a work in progress So tell me what flaws you got, too ( You got, too) 'Cause I still like what's flawed about you
So you see, everypony? None of us ever claimed to be perfect. Without our flaws, there wouldn't be any friendship lessons to learn. Without our flaws... there probably wouldn't be any friendships at all.
So that just happened.
Girls! I found two ponies who have something I think you should hear.
Um, we just wanted to say thank you. To all of you.
Yeah, our friendship? Well, we were having trouble until we read your journal. It showed us that friends can go through all sorts of tough times and come through stronger than before.
It's made us better friends than we've ever been!
Really?
Mm-hmm.
Oh, I can't tell you how much it means to hear that. Thank you for telling us. We've had a tough couple of days, but knowing we've helped fillies like you...
It makes everythin' we've been through worth it.
Absolutely. Fads come and go. Friendship is forever.
There are worse things than not being able to do anything without being told I'm awesome.
And we can't change the way other ponies think about us. But we can change how we let it affect us.
Or how we don't let it affect us!
[giggles] Go ahead! Laugh!
Reckon we still have to deal with them, don't we?
Stay in the friendship moment, Applejack. They can wait a little longer.
Is the banner even? Are the flowers in place? By which I mean "completely out of view". I'm pretty sure dragons don't like flowers. And what about the Ceremonial Dragon Fire Flame of Friendship? Is it still flaming?
Spike, everything looks great! You're getting yourself worked up for no reason.
I have lots of reasons. In fact, I wrote them down.
[sighs] You've been hanging around Twilight for too long.
Reason number one – I invited Dragon Lord Ember to Ponyville today. Reason two – the Dragon Lord is a dragon. Reason three – she's coming here to learn more about friendship.
According to Ember's letters, the dragons are trying to be friends, but competing is in their nature, and it's leading to more and more fights.
Which brings me to to reason number four. The Dragon Lord wants my advice, and as the new official Equestrian friendship ambassador to the dragons, I can't let her down.
I know you feel a lot of pressure, but you've got this, Spike!
I... I just want things to be perfect.
[gasps] Thorax! You're in Ponyville!
Of course I am, silly! You invited me. And I'm not one to back out of an invitation. Hey, Twilight! Hey, Starlight!
Oooh! I can't believe you did all this for me! Great banner! Love the stage! What's this flame thingy? Oh, it's pretty!
[whispering, to Spike] You invited Thorax over to Ponyville on the same day as Ember?!
Apparently.
That doesn't seem like a good idea. How are you gonna entertain them both?
Well, maybe they'll like each other.
Probably not. Ember is tough and self-assured and intimidating. And Thorax is...
Spike, I'm so glad you invited me! You are one of my closest, nicest, most caring, most understanding friends ever! Ooh! Is that ice in the shape of a dragon?
Yeah, I see your point. They might not get each other.
I'm sure that won't happen. Now pull it together.
So, heh, Thorax, heh, everything good with you?
Well, honestly, no. Not really. I have indigestion. Not sure if it's the new diet or stress. Or maybe it's both.
No!
Yeah, it really could be both. And it might be affecting my sleeping, too. I'm a real tosser and turner.
Sounds like you really need to unwind. Uh, how about a, uh... a trip to the castle? Heh. You can't miss that view.
Yes, the castle! I'll give you a personal tour!
Uh, aren't you coming?
Yeah, I'm just gonna... grab some ice cream for us and catch up. Heh-heh.
Dragon Lord Ember, as the official Equestrian friendship ambassador for the Dragon Lands and for Ponyville, I, Spike of Ponyville, welcome you to... uh, Ponyville. [quietly, to himself] I gotta work on my official speech.
Okay, thanks. [chuckles] Right. The hug thing.
That's probably why.
Hey, Twilight!
Actually, I'm Starlight. Starlight Glimmer. Nice to meet you.
Oh, sorry. I'm really gonna have to get used to these pony names. Lots of "-lights" and shiny things. So, where is Twilight?
She's in her castle. D'oh!
We should go visit her then. Part of friendship is saying "hi" to your friends, right?
You're making weird noises. Do you have a stomachache?
Dah. I think I feel one coming on.
Well, you know what us dragons say. "Push past the pain!" Now, let's go.
Or we could stay here.
Or I could go without you.
[laughs] Ah, I like her.
Ohhh.
Good. They're not here.
What was that?
Uh, I... I said, "It's all clean in here!" Uh, you must be hungry from your travels. Please, I'd love to present you with an official friendship welcome banquet.
Actually, that's not food.
[aside] Dragons love gems!
Fine, but you're telling Twilight what happened to her wall.
Just keep her here. [to Ember] Okay, yeah! [laughs] Enjoy all the, uh... crystal... things!
Where are you going? I thought this was an official friendship banquet.
Just gotta use the little dragons' room!
So this is my comfy chair for fictional reads. [grunts] This is my studying chair because the hard back keeps me awake.
Oh, Spike! I'm so glad you're here! [quietly] This castle visit is getting weird. Twilight really likes chairs. Oh, what happened to the ice cream?
What? Oh, right! Uh, they ran out. Heh. Hey, I'm really sorry, but I gotta borrow Twilight quickly.
Aah!
Be right back!
Ember's here!
I know. I saw you coming and had to distract Thorax by showing him chairs. Why did you bring Ember to the castle of all places?
I don't know! Ember was asking for you, Thorax wants to talk with me. We need to switch places! They might be getting suspicious.
All we have to do is make both Thorax and Ember feel special and keep them apart for a few more hours. We can do this.
I think it's the map. It's calling... you. Apparently, you also have to solve a friendship problem!
The map is calling me?!
Oh, amazing! The map is really reaching out!
Not a good time? I get it.
Spike, are you here? Ember's eaten all of Twilight's decorations, and—oh! Hey, Twilight! [chuckles, gasps] Glowing map... [gulps] Glowing spikes... That's not good.
I know!
At least your friendship problem is in Ponyville? Heh.
Okay, okay. To pull this off, I'm gonna need both of you to help. You two need to keep Ember and Thorax separate while I get ice cream.
You mean "find the friendship problem".
Yeeeees! Go easy on me. I'm under a lot of pressure.
Friendship problem? Anypony gotta friendship problem here? Any problems to solve? Friendship problems? Friendship problems! Anypony got a friendship problem here? No? Okay.
[grunts] Well, I think vanilla strawberry cream is overused!
Hmph.
Yes! Fighting! Uh, I mean, what seems to be the problem?
Ember, there you are!
Okay, right. More pony hugs.
How's your trip to Ponyville so far?
Well, I'm certainly learning a lot about friendship. I had no idea it was polite to decorate your walls in your friends' favorite foods!
[laughs nervously] Oh, my.
Nooooo. They're just making sure everything is perfect for your welcome party later. In the meantime, how about I show you around town?
Sounds good. I can't exactly learn about friendship if I don't make new friends.
Oh!
Uh, hey, Thorax. Um, Twilight and Spike had some boring official paperwork to deal with, so looks like you and I get to hang out. What would you like to do?
But I wanted to talk with Spike. He said he'd be right back.
Oh, you will. But first, how about we grab a bite to eat?
Huh. Well, you know, now that you've said it, I am a little hungry. Is there a dining room in the castle?
No! I mean, yeah, but that's castle food. If you want the good stuff, we gotta go to town. Phew!
...and that's why you should never let cupcake flavors get in the way of your friendship.
Huh. I guess I never thought of it that way. Thanks, Spike!
Oh, come on! Glow!
Spike! There you are! Uh, done with your boring paperwork, I see.
[laughs nervously] Uh-huh. Uh-huh.
Yep. [laughs] I am done with whatever Starlight says I was doing.
Thorax wanted to get out of the castle. I thought coming to town was a really, really great idea.
Well, maybe now we can talk.
Uh, sssssure.
I'll leave you guys to it.
First of all, I want to say thank you for having me over. I'm in a bit of a leadership pickle, and I could use some advice.
Well, I definitely want to help you out as quickly as possible.
Usually when I do that, the dragons are eager to meet me.
That's not how ponies make friends.
Ah, I get it.
This is a weird friendship thing you ponies do, right?
Uh, you guys are in town, too?
What are you talking about? You've been with me this whole time.
No. I'm Starlight.
Riiiight. I'm sorry, but you can't blame me. You both look and act so much alike.
What?!
...and they said to me they just keep saying the same thing. You know, I think my leadership problem started in childhood. I must've been three when... [crossfades] ...three's a different story, a-and you've definitely gotta hear it. But the story about my brother was when I was two... or was I one?
This is my seat! I saw it first!
"Rainbow Stars": Well, I got here first!
Thorax, uh, excuse me for a second.
Hey, that was really great advice. So what do you think I should do?
[gasps] Uh, actually, I, uh... need a minute... alone... to, uh, really come up with great advice! [pants] I'll be right back.
[sighs] Great. No problem. Leave me again. It's fine.
I'm just saying you're both purple ponies with purple hair. You both have cutie marks with sparkly things.
[chuckles] Mine's more of a glimmer. Heh.
How is that different? Oh, good. Spike. Can you please tell these two I'm right? They look very similar.
Uh... Well, y'know, one thing friends do is let something go when it's upsetting somepony else.
But I'm right! Besides, who are you to be telling me about friendship? I've barely seen you all day!
Uh, well, I've seen you.
Are you calling me a liar?!
Hey! No one yells at my friend!
Spike, get away from the bear!
Actually, the bear is a changeling. And he's quite gentle.
[screams] My worst fears are happening!
Noooo!
[pants] Back away, Spike! I'm not gonna let this dragon harm a scale on your back!
You back away! I'm not gonna let you harm him! Wait. Did you say you're not gonna let me harm Spike?
Yeah!
But that's what I'm doing!
Uh, what?
Yeah, what?
[panicked] Equestria as we know it is over! The war that pits changeling against dragon is about to begin! And it's all my fault! My title of Equestria's friendship ambassador is a lie—! Oh. Hey. You guys aren't fighting?
Why would we be fighting?
Because I accidentally invited you both over to Ponyville on the same day?
So what?
So I... was trying to keep you apart because I didn't think you'd get along.
Oh. I get it. You thought he wouldn't like me just because I'm a dragon and I'm bad at friendship?
No, no, of course not! But— Wait. Isn't that why you're here?
I can say I'm bad at friendship. You can't say it about me! You know what? I don't wanna talk about it.
Wait, please! [sighs] [to Thorax] I'm sorry.
No, no, it's cool. You thought I would be too soft, and someone like Ember would never respect me. Just like my own changelings!
No, that's not it! Thorax, wait! Oh, no... What have I done?
Why are you still here?
[sighs] Because I'm having trouble leading my pack, so I don't really wanna go home.
Wait, you're in charge? [chuckles] Oh, boy. You need to be more assertive.
Well, that's my problem. I don't know how! I tried asking them to please follow my directions. I even offered a prize, and then—
Shhh! Stop talking.
That's how you do it.
Whoa! That just gave me chills.
I know you have it in you. You turned into a bear to defend Spike.
Huh, I guess I can be tough when I'm defending my friends, but when I'm just enforcing my rules, I-I feel unsure of myself.
There's nothing to be unsure of. You're the leader for a reason. Make a decision and let it be known that the decision is final. And if that doesn't work, turn into a bear.
Oh, well, that's good advice.
I know it is.
So what's your deal? Why do you think you're so bad at friendship?
I don't want to talk about it.
Oh, you have to! How else are you gonna solve your problems?
Uh, how does that help?
Crushing another dragon in competition establishes my dominance and makes me feel great.
Right, but, uh, how do you think they feel?
Humiliated! Ashamed! They'd probably wanna run away and bury themselves under a rock and... never come out. They're probably sad. Kinda low. Definitely not happy.
That's because that kind of competition can divide you. And it doesn't get to the heart of the issue. Talking about your feelings does.
[sneezes] Ugh! I think I'm allergic to feelings.
You know you don't have to be sappy...
...or huggy-feely about it! But you should let your friends know how you feel.
Uh, I know where we can start.
Where? Ohhhh. Spike. Hah. I got there.
I think they're gone. They probably never want to see me again.
Or they want to see you now.
Guess what, Spike.
I know. I'm so sorry.
Okaaaay... That's a good first attempt. Now maybe try to be more specific?
[cracks limbs, breathes deeply] I'm... [sighs] upset!
You have every right to be.
I know I do! And I know I need to tell you how I feel because my friend Thorax said it would make me feel better. And it does!
Yeah! And I have no problem telling you what you did was wrong because my friend Ember is helping me be more assertive!
Whoa.
Nice.
Ha-ha!
You guys should be mad at me. I was so worried about how it could go wrong, I didn't even think about how it could go right. [sighs] Can you forgive me?
I really do feel better. So, yeah. I'm good.
[groans] Again?
No way! It's finally happening! I solved the friendship problem!
Actually, you created the friendship problem by not trusting your friends.
Yeah, but then I solved it by learning my lesson. I should have told my two friends about each other immediately instead of assuming they wouldn't get along.
Good job, Spike.
Is this another part of pony friendship? Telling each other what you learned all the time?
Yeah, pretty much.
Yup.
[through loudspeaker] So, as a show of unity, I present the Dragon Fire Flame of Friendship to both Dragon Lord Ember and Thorax, leader of the changeling pack! May the flame of friendship burn for eternity.
You should have more things made of rocks.
[straining] [muffled] Hey, kid, get over here!
Tents are lookin' good. And we made good time today. At this rate, we'll be at Winsome Falls by tomorrow!
We should do the annual Big-Sister-Little-Sister camping trip every weekend!
Then it wouldn't be annual. And if we did it every weekend, it probably wouldn't be as special.
But the more we do it, the better we get at camping. Remember the first time we came here and Rarity had that ginormous tent?
I heard that! [giggles] I've gotten much better at "roughing it", haven't I?
Yup. This time, you only packed three suitcases.
I know what you're thinking. But I promise, I only brought the essentials.
Like those light thingies?
Of course. What is life if you can't make it beautiful?
Mmmm! These berries look good enough to eat!
Don't! According to my book, they're extremely poisonous!
What?
I heard something, I stepped on something, and I saw that creepy cave... I guess I still get a little bit scared out here, even after the last camping trip.
Don't worry, kid. You've got a big sister this time.
This looks amazing!
This is gonna be the best Big-Sister-Slash-Little-Sister camping trip ever!
Ow! What are these things?! Aaagh!
Fly-ders! Everypony, run for cover! Don't get stuck in their—
...web.
[shrieks] Now what?!
Follow me, everypony!
Aaah! Not the scary cave!
Where did those terrible bugs come from? And why did they destroy our camp?
Ugh.
Flyders are from the Luna Bay area. Never seen 'em this far east, though. Probably attracted to the food. Best wait here until they're gone.
Oh, apple rot! What are we supposed to do now?! We had games to play and marshmallows to roast at camp! In here, we got nothin'!
Mm, that's not entirely true. We have each other.
That's right! And if you girls want to, maybe we could tell some stories to pass the time.
You want stories? I've got a ton of stories! Spoiler alert – they're all about me and how awesome I am!
I was thinkin' more like campfire stories?
But we don't even have a campfire.
I got this!
Wow. That was brave.
We aren't gonna tell scary stories like our last camping trip, are we? It's bad enough just being in here!
Don't worry, Scootaloo. I was gonna tell you mine and Apple Bloom's favorite legend.
Ooh! You mean Rockhoof? I love that one! He was so strong, and when he—
Apple Bloom, shhh! We haven't heard it yet!
Oh, okay. But it's so good! Heh.
Well, it's true. Rockhoof was known far and wide for his incredible strength. But he didn't start out that way. You see, Rockhoof was a tiny little fella, the son of a farmer.
Just like us!
They lived in a village that sat at the foot of a gigantic volcano.
[narrating] And the village was protected by an elite group of guard ponies called the Mighty Helm.
[narrating] Young Rockhoof wanted nothing more than to be part of the Mighty Helm.
[narrating] But he was told that he was too scrawny and weak to protect the village.
[narrating] But Rockhoof wouldn't take no for an answer.
[narrating] Then, one fateful day...
[narrating] ...the volcano erupted!
Eeeeeeeeeeee—
[continued] —eeeeeeeeee! This is my favorite part!
Rainbow Dash, What happened next?!
The molten lava poured down the side of the volcano...
[narrating] ...and try as they might, the Mighty Helm couldn't figure out a way to save the village! They had to evacuate. But the village ponies didn't wanna leave their homes. They spent their entire lives there. They had nowhere else to go! So Rockhoof decided to do something crazy.
[narrating] He thought if he could divert the flow of the lava, he might be able to save his village. He started diggin' a trench!
Wait a minute. All by himself?
It'd be impossible for one pony to dig a trench fast enough to stop the lava. I mean, even I couldn't do that.
Good thing Rockhoof didn't believe in the word "impossible".
[narrating] He continued to work, knowin' the odds were against him, but determined to push through it. Then, somethin' magical happened.
[narrating] Rockhoof got visibly stronger! But the lava was getting' closer.
[narrating] Through his extraordinary determination and sheer force o' will, Rockhoof more than earned his place in the Mighty Helm.
Good story, Applejack! Even if it wasn't about me.
I love that story, no matter how many times I hear it.
Why don't we see if it's safe to head back to camp?
Uh, girls? There is no camp to go back to.
All our hard work is ruined!
There, there, Sweetie Belle. Not to worry.
How? Our camp was so pretty, and this cave is so... not.
Oh, no-no-no-no, no, not true. There's beauty in everything. Even these blah rocks aren't really blah. If you look closely, you can see flecks of gold in them. And the way the firelight dances on the cave wall, shadow and light? Ooh, it's so gorgeous! Sweetie Belle, have I ever told you about my favorite legend?
No. I didn't know you had one.
Her name... was Mistmane.
Mistmane? Isn't she the old wrinkly sorceress with the flower?
Yeeees, but did you know she used to be the most beautiful unicorn in all the land?
[flatly] No.
So what happened to her?!
Well, Mistmane was a very promising young sorceress.
[narrating] She was as talented as she was beautiful and kind. Everypony loved her and missed her when she was sent to the finest magic school.
[narrating] While she was gone, she was delighted to find out that her best friend, Sable Spirit, was crowned empress. She couldn't wait to return home once she finished her studies.
[narrating] But once she arrived, she was devastated by what she saw.
What happened here?
The Empress happened. She makes everypony work day and night on her palace. We don't have time to take care of anything else.
But that can't be. I know her! She would never do this.
[narrating] But there was no denying what was in front of her.
[narrating] Sable Spirit took everything that was beautiful away from anypony else! And Mistmane was sure there had to be some explanation.
I'd assume there was, too. If somepony told me either one of you two'd gone evil...
Yeah, I'd never believe it.
I dunno. I've seen the way you two get when you miss breakfast.
[chuckles nervously] Just kiddin'. But I'd want answers too.
So did Mistmane. She went to confront her friend.
Sable, is that you?
Don't tell me you don't recognize your old friend.
I don't. My friend would never work our families and friends to the bone for something as silly as a palace.
Silly? My palace is a beacon of beauty! Anypony who passes will be in awe of its majesty!
What good is a pretty palace if it just hides the misery of its ponies?
Beauty is everything. You taught me that.
What?!
You were always the pretty one. You got to go to the best magic school. Everypony missed you. Everypony loved you! I admit I was jealous, so I tried to perform a spell that would make me beautiful. You can see how that went!
I found if I couldn't have beauty, I would take it. I wasn't chosen to be empress, you know. I took it! Just like I'm going to take everything else.
I can't let you do that.
[narrating] Everypony thought Sable Spirit was defeated, and that was that. But Mistmane knew there was more she could do to help.
[narrating] Beauty isn't everything. But Mistmane knew that it does have the power to make ponies smile.
[narrating] She made a huge sacrifice to bring that smile back to her friends' and family's faces... including Sable Spirit's.
[gasps] You did this for me? Even after I was so cruel?
[narrating] Sable Spirit was so touched that she vowed to be more like her friend in the ways that mattered. From then on, she ruled with kindness and compassion.
[narrating] Even though she gave away her physical beauty, she dedicated her life to spreading beauty all over Equestria. Any time you go out of your way to brighten somepony's day by doing something like giving them flowers, you're following in the hoofsteps of Mistmane.
I think she's my favorite legend too.
Ugh! These Fly-ders won't quit! What do they want from us now?
Well, like it or not, we're food, too.
And I've got the bites to prove it.
[panicking] What are we gonna do?! They're almost here!
What?! Now those bugs can't get in!
[hyperventilating] And we can't get out!
Let's all just stay calm. Let me re-light this fire...
We just have to wait until the swarm moves on. Then we'll think of a way out.
Whoa-whoa-whoa, Scootaloo. You're focusing on the wrong things.
You have a plan?!
Close. I have a story.
Lemme guess – it's about you?
Practically. It's about my favorite legend, Flash Magnus!
Wasn't he the pony who took on the dragons?
Dragons?! Big, scary, mean ones or like Spike?
Oh, these were definitely the big, scary, mean kind!
But not too scary. You can sit closer to me if you want.
A long time ago, before the Wonderbolts were even founded...
[narrating] ...Flash Magnus was a lowly cadet in the Royal Legion.
[narrating] And the Legion needed to fly over the Dragon Lands to get to their comrades on the other side. But as they got closer to the dragons...
[narrating] ...the dragons attacked!
[shivering] You said this wasn't too scary!
[very muffled] Scootaloo, if you just hang in there—
What?
I said if you just hang in there, I promise you'll like the ending. So, like I was saying, Flash Magnus and the Royal Legion tried to get past the dragons...
[narrating] ...but the dragons wouldn't let them!
Everypony, retreat!
[narrating] Flash Magnus and a few other cadets were separated from the battalion. He managed to get away, but the dragons captured his friends and took them back to their lair!
Commander! We need to save our captured comrades!
I appreciate your loyalty, Flash Magnus, but getting past those dragons is going to be impossible. Nothing will work.
The commander was right. You can't outfight dragons.
But you can out-think them.
Commander Ironhead, I'm pretty sure I can outfly the dragons. If I can lure them into chasing me, you can all sneak into the lair and retrieve our friends before they get back.
Are you really willing to take that chance, soldier?
I am, sir.
It's a very brave thing you're doing. You'll need all the help you can get.
Is this... Netitus, the fireproof shield?!
It has protected Legion heroes for generations. And today, I can't think of a worthier flank for Netitus to protect.
Good luck, soldier.
[exhales] [shouting] Hey! Come and get me, fire-breath! If you can! [clanking shield] Hey, hey! Come and get me! Hey, I'm over here!
[narrating] While Flash Magnus bravely flew for his life, Commander Ironhoof was able to get his soldiers back.
[narrating] Flash Magnus flew like the wind...
[narrating] ...faster than the dragons!
[narrating] But he knew he couldn't do this forever. Luckily, he had a plan.
[narrating] He led the dragons straight into a storm that the Legion had planted!
[narrating] One taste of the lightning, and the dragons retreated.
[narrating] Flash Magnus' plan worked!
Wow! I did like that ending.
Told ya! He always inspired me to be my brave and awesome self.
Mm-hmm!
Yeah, I guess he kinda reminds me of you.
Tch! You guess? Come on, I'm just like him!
Hey, do you hear that?
Uh, I don't hear anythin'.
Exactly! Those gosh-darn Fly-ders are gone! We can get out!
Whoa!
Or not.
We're gonna have to see if we can get out the other way.
You mean go further into the dark, spooky cave?!
Scootaloo, just remember the story. Gotta be brave like me and Flash Magnus, okay?
I hear water!
And if there's flowing water, then...
...it might lead to the way out!
Whoa!
Okay, on three. One, two—
Three!
Woo-hoo!
Yeah-ha-ha!
Huh. Well, what do you know? We found ourselves a shortcut to Winsome Falls!
[sighs] It's never looked so beautiful.
Well, almost.
We sure are sorry that our camping trip wasn't what we hoped it would be.
Are you kidding? This trip is awesome!
It is?
We got to hear legendary stories and go on an adventure.
Wait, you three wanna stay?
Of course we do!
We could turn those trees into a nice, little shelter!
We can get you some big logs and branches to help build it!
And I bet we could find some more berries! Come on! I can't wait to see what happens next year!
Ha! Straight to the changeling hive! I told you I could do it.
Well, not exactly straight, Starlight. We've been popping all around Equestria, and we still have to walk.
[scoffs] It's like twelve steps away. Before Chrysalis' throne was destroyed, the closest magic would've gotten us was waaaaaaay over there. On a scale of one to ten, how happy do you think Thorax is gonna be about our surprise visit?
Definitely ten. I mean, who wouldn't be happy at the chance to marvel at the overwhelming talent that is the Great and Powerful Trrrrrixie?!
Trixie, we're coming to offer Thorax encouragement and support. His letters make it seem like the responsibilities of being a changeling leader are a little overwhelming.
Yeah. I know. That's basically what I said.
He's dealing with the wants and needs of his subjects. Redesigning the hive, a dread maulwurf wreaking havoc outside...
It does sound like a lot, but are you sure that last thing is real?
The dread maulwurf? Sure it is. Thorax said it's like half-bear, half-mole, half-raging-pile-of-claws! But now that the changelings don't feed on the love of everything around them, plants have started to grow back. But this maulwurf keeps eating them all up.
"Maulwurf". Uh-huh. You're just trying to scare me, but it won't work. Because not only am I the Great and Powerful, I am also the Unscareable Trixie!
[screams] Please tell me Thorax also mentioned a terrifying-looking changeling who greets visitors but is actually nice!
[meakly] Nope.
Starlight, you got us here. I'll take us home. Teleportation spell, go! Did I save us?
Nope.
What are you waiting for?! Use some magic to get us outta here!
Calm down, "Unscareable Trixie". We have to find out what's going on. Thorax might need our help.
We need our help! Teleportation spell, go! Teleportation spell, go! [gasps] Teleportation spell—!
Ugh! Why do you keep doing that? You know it doesn't work that way.
I know, but this is my process.
I've captured these trespassers!
Starlight! Trixie! It's okay, Pharynx. You can let them go.
But they were lurking on our grounds! In the old days, I would've already feasted on their love.
Well, that's why they're called the "old days", because they're old. We don't do that anymore.
Dah! I liked the old days better.
Uh, what are you two doing here?
We wanted to surprise you. [sheepishly] Surprise.
Well, it's great to see you! I'm sorry about the welcome committee.
I thought Ember helped you get more assertive so you could deal with all the renegade changelings who didn't wanna change.
Oh, she did. Really helpful. I was able to convince all of them to change, except one of them... My brother.
Your brother?
Yep. Pharynx is my elder broodmate.
Oh, yeah. You guys have the same... um... eye shape?
What a ridiculous comparison! We are nothing alike!
Stop doing that!
Ugh. Well, how about I show you the rest of the hive where it's less loud and bangy?
There've been a lot of changes since you were here last. I'm trying to start some new activities since the only thing we did before was hunt and patrol. There's theatre, swing dancing, a once-a-week potluck lunch. Ooh! And who can change shape and organize craft time? Hmm? [transformation noise] This guy!
I am really impressed, Thorax. The hive, all the activities...
Gah! He did it again! Pharynx dumped an entire can of black paint on me! He said my fuchsia color wasn't "intimidating to our enemies"! What enemies?!
I am so sorry. I promise I'll talk to him.
You're the ruler of the hive, Thorax! You need to do more than talk!
Well, maybe not everything here is amazing.
Seriously, Thorax. What is up with your brother?
Ugh. Pharynx used to be head of patrol. But now we're peaceful and there's no need to patrol, so he just stalks around the hive making everyone miserable. The other changelings are sick of it, and if I can't get him to accept love and friendship and change like the rest of us, everything I've done here is at risk.
Uh-uh.
[encouragingly] Hmm?
[sighs] Uh-huh.
We know a thing or two about what it's like to be outsiders. Maybe we could talk to him for you.
Do you really think you can help?
Thorax, if there's anypony who can help your brother, it's me. And with Starlight helping, it might take slightly longer, but I guarantee you we can do it.
Thorax, we're ready to start work on the trail of plants to lead the maulwurf away.
Oh, I have to head outside. You sure you're okay handling Pharynx?
Absolutely.
So, how do you wanna play this? I'm thinking "good pony/bad pony". You yell and blast him with magic while my natural charisma will convince him that— uh, Starlight?
Hey, Pharynx. I know when we first met, it didn't go so well.
Right. [clears throat] So... not a big fan of the vines, huh?
They're a safety hazard. An enemy could hide in them or use them as weapons. I don't even know why they're here.
Because they're pretty?
That's ridiculous.
Oh, totally. We get you. But... [clears throat] maybe don't express how you feel by destroying them?
I don't take advice from ponies. The only thing I take from you is breakfast. At least, I used to.
You know, you're a lot like us!
Doubt it.
It's true. Do you know who Twilight Sparkle is?
No.
Well, she's the most well-liked, studious, do-goodiest pony in Equestria.
Ugh! She sounds awful.
Oh, you'd hate her. I used to. She made me unsure about my place in the world, which led me to act out against her.
And I used to be a dictator who ran a village with an iron hoof.
Really? Hmm. Maybe you two do understand me.
Yes! We do! But now, Trixie has come to terms with being second-best, and I no longer control ponies against their will. And our lives are so much better for it.
Wow. So you're both losers. Stay away from me, or I'll do to you what I did to the vines.
Well, "Operation: Lead Maulwurf Away" is coming along. How'd it go with Pharynx?
Your brother is, um, challenging.
Oh, that bad, huh?
It wasn't great.
You wanna talk it out? You can come with me to the feelings forum.
The feel-like-what-now?
Oh, it's a place for changelings to express their feelings so we all gain a better understanding of each other. It's really helped bring the hive closer together.
Sometimes I feel like I'm a blue changeling. Sometimes I feel like I'm a purple changeling. But here I am, a green one.
You can be anything you want to be. Be blue one day and purple the next. Be both on the same day!
But then I feel like I'd be living a lie.
It's very brave of you to share something so personal. Does anyone else have similar concerns?
I used to, but craft time has given me such a creative outlet, I feel great now!
Uh-huh. Everyone loves craft time.
Well, everyone except for... you-know-who.
Yeah. You-know-who spends all his craft time making spears.
He's scary and intimidating. You-know-who makes me uncomfortable.
He makes us all uncomfortable.
Everyone, please! I understand Pharynx can be challenging at times.
That's an understatement. He lined a hallway with thorns!
He teaches little changelings to growl and hiss!
My soup's too hot!
What? I thought the feelings forum was for sharing our problems.
It sounds like your lame "feelings forum" is for talking about me behind my back!
The feelings forum is for talking about anything that's bothering you. Is there something you'd like to share, Pharynx?
Actually, there is. The changelings used to be a fearsome swarm! Now we sit around talking about our feelings so much, you can't even stop a maulwurf from eating all your "pretty plants"! I could've sent that thing packing before, but I guess now we'll just try to lead it away and hope that keeps us safe!
I don't feel safe with him around!
I'd feel safer if he were gone!
I can't do that.
[slurps] Hey, my soup's cooled down! These feeling forums are great for solving problems!
Everyone, please. If we are interrupting each other, we are not affirming each other.
That's it! Feelings forum is over!
I... [sighs] I want to say something, but it goes against everything I've been taught as Twilight's pupil.
Ooh! Then, by all means, say it.
[sighs] I think Pharynx is a lost cause.
Mm. I'm all for second chances. Third, even. But he just seems like a bad bug.
And Thorax has a duty to the whole hive, not just his brother.
If he keeps sticking up for Pharynx, the hive might decide they don't want Thorax as their leader.
I think he might have to kick Pharynx out. But I don't wanna be the one to tell Thorax that.
Me, neither. But somepony probably should. I nominate you!
Ugh!
Thorax, we have something to tell you.
It's about Pharynx, isn't it?
[hesitating] Mmmmmmmaybe?
Look, I know he's an aggressive warrior type, but when I was little, every young changeling wanted to be like that.
[voiceover] ...Every young changeling except me. The others would pick on me for not wanting to fight.
Look at the little grub playing with his dollies!
Step away from my brother!
[voiceover] But Pharynx never let them hurt me.
We were just complimenting his dollies.
Thanks, Pharynx.
Why are you hitting yourself?! Stop hitting yourself! Why are you hitting yourself?!
Ouch! Cut it out, Pharynx!
They're right, you know. You need to have tougher skin.
Aw, that was a really sweet story. Until the end.
I know Pharynx loved me in his own way, and I know there's still good in him. That's why I keep sticking up for him. Anyway, what did you wanna talk to me about?
Me? Oh, noooo. But, uh, Starlight has something she—
Actually, Thorax, um, never mind! C'mon, Trixie, we've got a... thing to do.
[whispering] What are you doing? I thought we agreed you'd tell Thorax he had to kick his brother out of the hive!
Maybe we don't have to. Get Pharynx and meet me at the hive entrance. I'll explain everything.
And how am I supposed to know where Pharynx is?!
I just saw Pharynx.
Oh! Well, that was easy.
Wow.
I know, right? Great idea? Where's Pharynx?
He's gone.
Gone like gone to the throne room?
Gone like gone! One of the changelings said Pharynx left the hive for good!
[gasp] Then who's gonna stop the dread maulwurf I'm leading here?!
[panting] Thorax, there you are! Pharynx is missing!
Wait for it...
And the dread maulwurf is coming this way!
Told ya.
That doesn't make any sense. The trail of plants should have led the dread maulwurf away.
[nervous laugh] I might have relaid them to lead it back toward the hive.
Why would you do that?!
I thought if Pharynx saw you were in danger, the loving, caring side of him would come out when he protected you!
But instead, he's out there alone somewhere between us and that rampaging monster?! I have to save him!
I'm coming with you!
Of course you are! This is all your fault!
[condescending] Oh, don't be too hard on Starlight. Her heart was in the right place.
You're coming, too!
Oh. Right. I mean, I was gonna volunteer anyway...
Who else is coming?
[groans] Fine.
Oh, sure, you could all stay here, not help Pharynx and he won't bother you anymore. It's your choice. But remember when you didn't have a choice! When you were forced to obey Chrysalis! You might have been unstoppable, but you weren't free to choose! And now you are, because of Thorax! Well, it's his brother out there, and now it's your chance to prove you're just as strong embracing love as you were feeding on it! Now is your chance to show what changelings can really be! Not because you have to, but because you choose to!
That was an amazingly epic speech, Starlight! I just can't believe not a single changeling was moved by it.
I can't blame them. If he wasn't my brother, I don't think I'd be here. We're gonna have to face the maulwurf by ourselves.
Maybe it'll be long gone and we'll find Pharynx out here alone!
Or maybe not.
Pharynx!
What are you doing here?!
I'm here to save you!
Get outta here! Let me handle this!
We're not leaving you!
[nervous] I may have forgotten to mention in my letters that maulwurfs have really thick hides!
I thought you said you could beat this thing!
Yeah, with the rest of the swarm! Not alone!
Good thing you're not alone!
I told you it was an epic speech.
It's no use! We're out of practice and he's too tough!
And strong! Too bad we can't get it to fight itself!
That's it! Thorax, remember when we were young and I made you hit yourself?
Now is not the time to make fun of me, Pharynx!
Oh, right! Of course!
Why are you hitting yourself? Why are you hitting yourself? Why are you hitting yourself?!
Yeah, maulwurf, why are you hitting yourself?
Why are you hitting yourself, huh? Huh? Huh?
Ooh, that looks like it hurts.
We did it! It's gone!
What were you doing out here?
Leaving. I'm done with all of you.
Oh. It's just, why bother fighting the maulwurf then? You coulda left it alone.
Well, I couldn't just let it attack you!
But I thought you were done with us, and you didn't care.
I never said that. The hive is the thing I care about most.
Well, you certainly don't act like it.
Well, I'm sorry if I don't get excited about pretty flowers and feeling circles and—
It's a feelings forum.
Whatever. It doesn't matter. Even if I do care about the hive, I obviously don't have a place there anymore.
Actually, you do. Because we've been wrong. Um, the hive may be a gentler, nicer place...
...but that doesn't mean we won't have to defend ourselves. Clearly.
And who better to help us do that than the only changeling who never stopped protecting us?
You all want me to stay?
Unless you still want to leave the hive.
Why would I want that? I love the hive!
He did it! He transformed!
I always knew you had it in you!
Really? Because I thought you said I was a lost cause and you were going to tell Thorax he should kick me out.
Oh! Starlight! How could you say that?
Ugh! What?! That's—! I mean—! But you—!
Lucky for us, you weren't a lost cause.
Lucky for me, you didn't give up on me.
Soooo... glad everything worked out.
Yeah! Let's talk about how you not only led the maulwurf to the hive but also drove my brother away from it!
Hey. Do you guys want to hear the story about how I used to make Thorax hit himself?
[relieved] Oh, absolutely, yes, right now!
Morning, Pinkie Pie. Get your Ponyville Chronicle right here!
Fan-tizzy-astic! I just love to read about happy happenings, and it's always good to be a pony in the know, you know? And there's so much to know!
Eh, seems like a bunch of boring hooey to me.
Does "New Shrubbery In Castle Garden" sound like boring hooey to you?
Snooze.
What about... "Parasprite Infestation In Fillydelphia Eradicated"? Ah! That's great news!
Eh. Another day, another parasprite hype story.
[reading] "Noodles Named Official Food Of Whinnyapolis". "Author A. K. Yearling Announces Retirement". "Cloudsdale Election Heating Up For Candidate In Favor Of Cooling It Down".
What?! Let me see that!
I never knew you were so into politics, Rainbow.
No, this! It can't be true...
I'd have never have picked noodles as the official food of Whinnyapolis either, but here we are.
No, Pinkie! I can't believe that the greatest author and secret pony adventurer of all time, A. K. Yearling... is retiring!
A. K. Yearling just retired. Like, today. Are you sure she wants visitors?
Pinkie, the A. K. Yearling I know would never quit and retire out of the blue! Something could be really wrong, and we need to make sure she's okay!
Okay! Heeeey... You're not just trying to make sure she writes more Daring Do books, are you?
Of course not! But that wouldn't hurt either. Now, come on!
Uh, maybe she's not home. Maybe she went to the editor-in-chief of the Ponyville Chronicle to correct the misprint they've made.
Nope. She's home.
How do you know?
Because she's right there looking all sad and alone.
[gasps] I knew it! Something is wrong! [knocking rapidly] A. K!
Now she's sighing with the weight of the world. Now she's hanging her head in utter despair. Now she's shaking her hoof and cursing the heavens like nothing could ever possibly be the same again. Why, oh, why did this happen to her?!
What?!
A. K., it's us! Rainbow Dash and Pinkie Pie! Your friends!
Oh, no. Did somepony ransack your cottage again and steal some ancient, mysterious relic that's the key to saving all of Equestria?!
Oooh! Sparky!
A. K. [sighs] Nothing's been stolen.
Then is somepony blackmailing you and forcing you to retire? Cause if they are...!
A. K. No. Nothing like that.
So you're just quitting and moving away? Why... would... you... do... that?!
A. K. I already explained everything to the Ponyville Chronicle.
Oh, really? [reading] "Author A. K. Yearling announced yesterday that the next adventure novel in her popular series, 'Daring Do and the Curse of the Pharaoh's Tomb', will be her last. Yearling looks forward to her retirement." That doesn't explain anything!
It just says you're giving up writing stories. But most ponies don't know that you actually are Daring Do and that the stories are real. So what you're really saying is that you're giving up being Daring Do, but you're not saying why!
Of course, if you don't feel like talking about it, that's A-okay, A. K.! As your friends, we completely understand. Right, Rainbow Dash?
Oh. Yeah. We just came to make sure you're all right. That's really why we wanted to find out what's going on.
A. K. If you really want to know... My last quest took me to a village in Southern Equestria, where I started seeing these.
[reading] "Wake Of Destruction: Daring Do Ruins Entire Village Marketplace!"
[reading] "Dare Or Scare: Local Rogue Daring Do Involved In Frightful Fiasco"?
[reading] "Daring Do Leads Bull Into China Shop During High-Speed Chase—"
A. K. That's enough! [sighs] Everypony I tried to help is mad at me.
That's not true. They're not mad at A. K. Yearling. They're mad at Daring Do.
A. K. They don't sell my books in Southern Equestria. The ponies there don't know who A. K. Yearling is. They only know Daring Do, and apparently she does more harm than good.
Then I guess it's a good thing you look so different as A. K. Yearling!
So all we have to do is go down there and explain to these ponies that none of this stuff is true.
Easy-peasy-cheesy!
A. K. But that's just the thing – it is true.
What?!
A. K. I guess I've always been so focused on saving priceless relics and stopping the bad guys that I never really thought about the mess I leave behind.
Then you are in a tricky pickle. But why is all this happening now?
A. K. [sighs] I guess ponies are finally fed up. Either way, I'm done with adventures, having or writing.
Come on! For every one pony who's upset, there must be at least a hundred that know you're a hero!
A. K. I don't think so, Dash.
Well, why don't we go visit this village "Som...nam...bu...la" and see for ourselves?
A. K. Those articles seem to make it pretty clear how the villagers feel.
But if we go there, the ponies can tell you in person just how much they appreciate you.
And what a heap of rotten apple cores these articles are!
A. K. You really think so?
I know so! Let's go!
[squealing] This is so cool! It looks just like that village in your last book where Daring Do recovers the Doomed Diadem from the Wild Bunch Gang who chase after her through the desert!
A. K. It should. I based that entire chapter on my experiences here in Somnambula.
What happens? No, wait, don't tell me. I changed my mind! Tell me!
Daring Do thwarts Ahuizotl's evil plot to separate the Sister Crown Relics. And if it wasn't for her, the region would be cursed with eternal night, and the entire town of Somnambula would have sunk into the ground!
Ah, puh! There's no chance that these ponies don't think you're a hero.
Watch this. [to "Cortland"] Hiya there, mister! I was hoping you could tell me about a pony named Daring Do. I hear she's an awesome adventure-pony hero.
"Cortland": Daring Do? Oh, she's awesome, all right. Awesome at destroying ponies' apple carts...
"Cortland": ...and priceless, sacred statues!
Dr. Indeed. Daring Do is a menace who destroys everything she touches!
What?! No! Daring Do is the exact opposite of a menace!
A. K. Ugh! I tried to tell you! Coming back here was a mistake!
Come on, A. K.! So we picked a bad example. That was just one angry pony.
Two angry ponies!
A. K. It doesn't matter! I never should have come with you! You two should just go home!
Come on! We gotta follow her!
I dunno. It really seemed like she doesn't want us cramping her saddle.
But we have to convince her that ponies do appreciate her! As her friend, I have to make sure she believes that.
Look, Pinkie! It's the Get On Inn! Daring Do stays here all the time in her adventures. Which means there must be ponies here who love Daring Do! Maybe they can help us.
[sniffing] Mmmmm. My nose is telling me to help myself to muffins.
Come on...
Ooh, she's fancy. I got this. [to Mrs. Trotsworth] A good evening to you, madame. We are but weary travelers who humbly wish to inquire on the status of a certain mare of intrigue taking residence here.
Mrs. What in Southern Equestria are you on about?
Is it true that Daring Do stays here?
Mrs. Ha! Not anymore, she doesn't!
Why not?
Mrs. The last time I rented that rascal a room, she was in such a rush to hightail it outta here, she didn't even pay her bill!
But—
Mrs. After that, a band of ruffians showed up and destroyed half the rooms looking for her. Guess she made them even more mad than she made me!
No, no, no. You've got it all wrong.
Mrs. Hmph! How do you figure?
Daring Do was trying to save everypony from the curse of the Doomed Diadem of Xilati. And she was only in a rush because she had to get the crown back to the Tiara of Teotlale before the curse took effect. [to Pinkie Pie] Chapter seventeen.
Mrs. Sounds like a tall tale to me. And a hard one to believe, now that I know Daring Do is a scoundrel and a thief! Every year, ponies come to offer precious glowpaz to the Somnambula statue in the village in hopes for a good future. Why, that poor fella had his glowpaz necklace stolen by Daring Do just yesterday!
Hmmm...
[gasps] There's A. K.!
Dr. Daring Do ruined our town and stole our precious glowpaz! We need to make sure that if she turns up again, there will be consequences! Everypony who's with me, meet at the statue tomorrow!
A. K. [sighs] Now I'm getting blamed for things I didn't even do? Why would I steal from them?
Listen, A. K. After a good night's sleep, we're going to fix all of this. I promise.
A. K. I shouldn't be here, Rainbow Dash. This is never gonna work.
Of course it will! All I have to do is go up there and explain to everypony how wrong they all are.
Yeah! And then I'll be like, "What she said!"
A. K. [sighs] Easy-peasy-cheesy...
Exactly!
Dr. Here it is! The remains of your– I mean, our Somnambula statue! Now that Daring Do has destroyed it, tell me, where will we hang our glowpaz?
We don't even have any glowpaz because they were stolen by Daring Do!
Daring Do would never steal anything! And okay, she destroyed your statue, but it was because she was trying to save you all from Ahuizotl!
Ahuizotl? He's about yea big? Long neck? Itty-bitty face? Weird claw thingy on his tail?
Ooh! Ooh! I know him! He's a baddie!
Trust me, if Ahuizotl had gotten away with the Doomed Diadem, your entire village would have been swallowed up! And that's a lot worse than losing some crummy old statue!
"Cortland": Ahem! This was not some crummy old statue! It was the namesake of our town! If you want to understand us, you must first understand her.
Who?
"Cortland": Somnambula. Long ago...
"Cortland": [narrating] ...this village fell prey to an evil Sphinx who demanded most of their crops. Like her fellow villagers, Somnambula didn't have much, but she used what she had to keep others from giving up hope. The son of the Pharaoh, Prince Hisan, was so moved by her compassion that he decreed nopony would go hungry again. But when Hisan stood up to the Sphinx, the beast captured him, telling the Pharaoh the only way to get Hisan back was to solve her riddle. Nopony would volunteer to save the prince. Nopony except Somnambula.
"Cortland": [narrating] The Sphinx gave her the riddle. "I shine brightest in the dark. I am there but cannot be seen. To have me costs you nothing. To be without me costs you everything." As Somnambula thought of the hardship she and her fellow villagers had experienced, she instantly knew the answer. "Hope!", she shouted.
"Cortland": [narrating] The Sphinx was so enraged, it seemed she might still refuse to release the prince, so Somnambula asked her for one more challenge. But if she accomplished it, the Sphinx would leave from the kingdom forever. The Sphinx quickly agreed, asking only that Somnambula walk to the prince across a deep chasm... blindfolded! Further, the Sphinx had cast a powerful spell that prevented Somnambula from flying.
"Cortland": [narrating] But Somnambula never lost hope! She knew she'd need to make a leap of faith to save the prince. Guided by the sound of the prince's voice... she easily made it across.
"Cortland": [narrating] The Pharaoh asked how Somnambula prevailed, and she explained that she had always hoped she could make things better for her people and that hope had carried her through. The Prince replaced the pearls Somnambula gave up with a string of glowpaz. And around her neck, they glowed bright enough to light the entire kingdom.
"Cortland": Forever after, glowpaz became our symbol of hope.
Wow. I had no idea how special the statue was to you. Somnambula sounds like a pretty cool pony. But I bet if she were here, she'd tell you how cool Daring Do is too, because they've both fought to protect this town!
Dr. If Somnambula were here today, she would condemn Daring Do for destroying your– our symbol of hope!
Hey, buddy! What did Daring Do ever do to you to deserve all this?!
Dr. Only... everything!
Dr. Caballeron?!
Dr. Yes... Rainbow Dash. [laughing evilly] When I saw you, her closest friend, I knew that Daring Do would not be far behind. I really do owe you for leading her right to me.
But I-I didn't mean to—
Help!
A. K. Caballeron?! No!
He's got Rainbow Dash! Come on!
[panting] I'm... coming... Rainbow... Dash... [to Daring Do] Ah! I knew you'd come!
You did? I sure didn't. What if I cause more trouble?
You won't.
How do you know?
I just do! You wouldn't let anything happen to Rainbow Dash. You care too much.
You're right. Which way did they go? To the pyramid!
Somepony help! Somepony! Anypony! Pinkie Pie?! Daring Do?! Is that you?!
Don't worry, Rainbow! We'll save you!
[grunting] He's right! We'll never get to her in time!
If this really is like Somnambula's story, then we just have to have hope that we can.
I think we need more than hope, Pinkie. There was a bridge in the story, and there's no bridge here. What are we going to do?
Pinkie!
Aha!
Wheeee! [giggles] I knew we'd do it!
Thanks for reminding me to never give up hope, Pinkie.
And I'm kinda "hoping" you ponies will untie me before we all take a bath in bubbling green slime!
We're on it!
Not so fast, Caballeron!
"Nile Faras": You stole our glowpaz!
I should have known you were just trying to sully my name so that you'd be free to steal whatever you wanted.
Dr. And with the destruction you leave in your wake, it didn't take too much to convince ponies you were a villain!
You're wrong, Caballeron. And I won't let you break my spirit again. Because I'm never going to give up hope that I can protect ponies and ancient treasures from miscreants like you!
Dr. R-Remember! She ruined your statue! You're fools to believe in her! [growls] You'll pay for this, Daring Do!
Okay, okay, that's enough. [to Rainbow Dash and Pinkie Pie] Thanks for helping me come to my senses. You two are true friends.
Are you kidding? That... was... awesome!
We're just glad you're back to your old self again.
[chuckles] Me too. But I'm glad I realized that even if you're fighting for something good, you're still responsible for your actions.
And if something bad happens that you didn't intend, you shouldn't give up hope or lose faith in yourself.
Yeah! All you gotta do is make it right. Feel free to use that in your next book!
You know, I think I will.
Hmph! Looks like I'm not the only one who left Mares Day to the last minute.
There's just so many! How can I choose?!
Now, hang on, everypony! We'll help all of you!
How?!
What I would do...
...is pick flowers that accentuate my mane. It makes for a captivating color story when you present them to whomever they're intended.
That's it!
Color consultations was a great idea, Rarity! Now, what can we do for you?
Oh, darling, I need a dozen lavender pieces for Photo Finish's shoot on the most beautiful manes in Equestria.
I know you're swamped, but it's for Vanity Mare! She's going to take pictures of my mane, so color coordination is a must.
Anything for you, Rarity.
Have you a single big one? If the wind came from one direction, it would really intensify the effect.
Mr. I don't. Uh, but I could make you one! It's not like I've got anything else to do.
Hmm. I do enjoy the windswept look, but other ponies might need to see it before they feel it.
"Chelsea Porcelain": Oh, if these came in different colors, I'd buy one for every room.
Hmm... Sales have been down. More colors it is!
Pinkie? I need to put Photo Finish in a good mood, and nothing creates a better mood than your confecti— Ooh. Am I interrupting?
We were just celebrating the anniversary of the twins' first sneezes! [giggles] [clears throat] Just about one year ago There was a tickle in your nose You snorted through the nursery [snorts] Happy Sneeze-iversary!
Achoo! Achoo! Aaaaa-choo!
[deadpan] Congratulations.
[shrieks] Pinkie! I can't have Photo Finish shoot my mane like this! And this party string won't come off!
Oh, that's because it's not just party string. It's super-sticky celebration string!
[shuddering sigh] It'll be fine, Pinkie. I'll find a way to clean this up before the shoot tomorrow. [whimper] Actually, you might consider doing the same.
[grunting, straining] If only we had some kind of super-sudsy mane conditioning shampoo for you and a magical cleaning remover potion for me.
[gasps] That's it! We'll pay a visit to Zecora! She's a wonder with a cauldron. I'm sure she can mix up a fix for both of us.
That's good, because it would take forever to yank all of those baked goods out of the super-sticky celebration string.
I... think you may still have some baking to do.
I do wish Zecora lived in town. One shouldn't have to brave the darkest part of the forest for shampoo.
Do you think Photo Finish would want to take a picture of my mane?
Well, uh... Hmm...I'm not sure that your style is quite right for this particular photo essay. Photo Finish travelled everywhere in her search for the most beautiful of manes.
Even Yakyakistan?
Well, yaks don't have manes, per se, and I'm not sure their style is quite what she's looking for either.
Though at this moment, neither is mine.
Don't worry! Zecora will abso-tively be able to help!
I'm sure you're right.
Listen, spooky eyes! Why don't you take a picture?! It will last longer!
On second thought, don't. Getting my picture taken in this state is what I'm trying to avoid!
Are you certain that's safe?
I'm sure they seem strange, but my methods are mine. After all, I've been doing this for quite a long time.
I'll have those cupcakes cleaned off in no time!
You really should bake new ones.
Nah!
For your mane, of course, just soap will do, so use my super-sudsy shampoo.
You were right to be concerned. Manes are tricky, I have learned.
Oh! [scoffs] Tell me about it!
Cleaning is simple, but a magical fix could cause any number of troublesome ticks.
Really?
Oh, there are tales I could tell to make your hair stand on end. Horrifying, terrifying attempts to mane-mend!
Well, I do enjoy a good yarn, but I'm not sure I could take anymore mane fright today.
There's the contagious frizz that spreads friend to friend, or the story of the infinitely splitting end!
Uh-huh, hmm, yes, well, very entertaining. Uh, thanks for the shampoo. Ta-ta!
Anything about curls that keep on curling until your whole body is one big curl?
[laughs] There is one story I nearly forgot: of an Earth pony who needed to clean up her shop.
Wow! That's just what I have to do! Huh, weird.
Perhaps it'd be better if I were more clear. You can't clean up Sugarcube Corner from here.
Geez, Zecora, I can take a hint.
With just a few drops, any mess you'll improve if you focus on that which you want to remove.
It won't be hard to focus on the super-sticky celebration string. It's kinda the only thing you can see.
Zecora says it would only take a few drops, but I figured we should all chip in. Just in case! Remember to only focus on the party string. We don't wanna accidentally remove anything else.
It's important that you know that I am not pointing hooves, but—
I don't understand. Is that you, Rarity? Why would you think to point your hooves at me?
Let's just say I understand why your shampoo hasn't made a splash in the marketplace.
Goodness, Zecora! You could at least pretend it isn't that bad!
I'm sorry, my dear, but there is nothing to say. You just took the wrong potion from here yesterday.
Oh, thank goodness! I thought maybe your shampoo had triggered early-onset mare pattern baldness!
No, this lack of hair was put into motion when you mistakenly washed with remover potion.
[laughing] Oh, what a relief! Well, if you could just whip up a cure, I'll be on my way. So much to do before the shoot tomorrow.
As I mentioned before, there's no easy fix. Mane-mending magic's the trickiest of tricks.
[mumbling] Sorry?
I doubt that your mane has left us forever. There is a chance we can fix it, I think, if we're clever.
W-w-w-w-w-w-wait, there's, there's a chance?! You think?!
I need to focus if I'm to work any faster. One wrong ingredient spells utter disaster. You should go finish your list of to-dos. Keep your mind off of all of these mane-losing blues.
[exhales] There's nothing to worry about. Zecora will have a cure before I've even finished my to-dos. But I don't know if I can even show my face looking like this!
I'm sorry, miss, but I can't match your mane if I can't see it.
What about mine?
Marigold, I should think!
Uh, sorry. I, uh, believe it was my turn, and I-I-I-I just need to pick up some—
Perfect!
Now me!
It's wonderful how this display shows that your fans provide just the right amount of air!
Mr. Well, I owe it all to Rarity.
Oh, so kind of you to say. I-I—
Mr. Kindness has nothing to do with it! Rarity always knows how to make something look its best. Probably because she looks so good herself! That ain't something us non-fabulous folk here can understand.
N-Non-fabulous?!
Now I appreciate everypony's interest in our new sofa colors, but the yellow one is spoken for.
Oh, thank you, Davenport. Um, perhaps I can pick it up once everypony leav—
I'll give you twice whatever the pony who wants to buy the yellow one is paying!
Three times!
But— But— I— I—
Sold!
I can't believe how differently ponies treat you when you can't command their attention.
Are you sure that's what happened?
Wait. You can't command ponies' attention because your mane's messed up?
"Messed up"? Does this look "messed up" to you?!
Honestly! How hard is it to pretend it's not so bad?
Hard.
If today is any indication of how ponies will treat me from now on, I can't simply wait to see if my mane grows back!
I'm sorry, Rarity. I'm sure nopony means to make you feel worse than you already do.
Didn't you say Zecora was working on a cure?
Yes, well, even if everypony isn't utterly indifferent to my presence, Zecora might not be able to fix this in time for the shoot. Can't you do a spell to restore some semblance of my mane?!
The thing is, it's pretty much like Zecora said. Fixing manes with magic is—
Tricky! I know! I don't care! Make with the tricks!
Huh?
This won't do! I need an actual mane!
But it has to come from somewhere.
Oh, you can't just make a mane with magic. The results could be disastrous.
More disastrous than this?!
[sighs] I don't think there's anything else we can try.
[panicked stuttering] B-But Zecora said there was still a chance!
At last, Rarity, I have searched for so long! What I told you before was totally wrong!
Zecora, you found a cure? That's amazing!
[sighs in relief] You mean I'll get my fabulous mane back in time for the shoot?
Oh, no. I'm afraid I can't fix it before the big shoot. But in time, the hair will grow back from the root. There's no magical cure to hasten us through it, unless you went backward in time to undo it.
Uh-uh. I think we can both say that's not a good option.
I have always believed that the right outfit can make up for any other areas that are lacking. But I will need your honest opinions. [nervous ta-da] How awful is it?
Applejack, [simultaneously] Uhhh...
Oh, come on! Can't anypony pretend it's not bad?!
We could, um, try.
Maybe...?
Well, if any of you have an idea how to make this disaster look good enough for Photo Finish's piece in Vanity Mare on the most beautiful manes in Equestria, [sobbing] I'm open to hearing it!
Is that all?
No problem!
Hm?
I don't understand, Applejack. How is milking a cow going to help?
That's just it. It looks like we hired a new milkmaid...
This is pretty close to my color as a young'un!
Just a little down-home ingenuity.
It's a good idea, Applejack, but Photo Finish is looking for the most beautiful manes, not bonnets.
This'll do the trick. Just you wait!
[gasps] You know, this is really quite fetching!
Yes! Nailed it!
...Just not portable.
There!
Oh, let's face it. I'll just have to call Photo Finish and cancel.
I think we all know how bad Rarity's been feeling, but I never thought she'd cancel her shoot with Photo Finish.
You saw her mane, right?
But it's Rarity. If anypony can turn lemons into lemonade, it's her.
I guess it's harder for her when she feels like the lemon.
Well, she's not a lemon – she's our friend. And right now, she needs our support.
[muffled] Come in.
Would you mind closing the door? I'm more comfortable in the dark.
Okay, Rarity, you've done just about enough sulkin'! Havin' a fabulous mane is a wonderful thing, but it ain't the only thing!
Yeah! And we're here to remind you how awesome you are, mane or no mane!
[sighs] It's lovely of you to say, but it's hard to argue with cold, hard facts.
What facts are those?
That without my mane, I simply can't shine as I once did, and ponies treat me like the sad, invisible pony I've become.
Rarity, you're not invisible. You're our friend. A friend that started a fashion empire.
A friend who made us all feel beautiful in her lovely creations.
A friend who stuck by us, no matter what!
A friend so generous that she once chopped off her own tail to help a sea serpent.
I know you lost some confidence when you lost your mane, but unlike your hair, confidence is something you can get back right now.
Goodness... You're right! The only pony behaving differently today was me! Besides, what doesn't shine from the outside in...
Um, Rarity, what are you doing?
I'm preparing to shine from the inside out!
Awesome!
It's my own fault. I shouldn't have bought flowers without asking Spoiled what she likes.
Well, we don't have much left. What does she like?
Um, uh... purple?
I have a solution!
Rarity, that mane is...
Amazing!
Thank you. Although I'm afraid I missed my chance at Vanity Mare, which means I have quite a few lavender arrangements to spare.
Uh, is lavender purple?
Mm... The windswept look is very last-season. Perhaps you could set this up outside. It's sure to draw in the hoof traffic.
Ahhh!
Photoshoot or no, you can always use a chaise!
Well, Rarity, if you wanted to shine from the inside out, I think this afternoon, you became the brightest filly in Equestria!
Oh, pshaw, Applejack. I'm simply making up for all the time I wasted feeling sorry for myself.
I don't know why you were so upset. Your mane looks awesome!
I'm just glad I have all of you to remind me that even if I accidentally use magical remover potion on my mane, I can look good on the outside as long as I feel good on the inside.
How'd you end up using remover potion on your head, anyway?
[gasps] Pinkie!
If I had the remover potion this whole time, that means Pinkie must have the—
...shampoo.
Shampoo? Wow! That explains why our manes are all so bouncy and soft!
Uh, perhaps I'll fetch the rest of that remover potion.
Great! Hey, is there something different about you? New hoof polish?
So you're sure? You're sure it's fully recovered?
Yes, Rarity. It's been months. Your mane looks fine.
Oooh, look! It's the "Most Beautiful Manes in Equestria" issue of Vanity Mare! You should read it.
Oh, honestly, Pinkie? After all I went through, I'm not sure it even matters what mane graces the page—
Read it!
But I... I cancelled the shoot.
We had a little talk with Photo Finish.
And explained just how beautiful we thought you were. Inside and out.
While you were shining from the inside out, Photo Finish took a few pictures.
I don't know what to say!
Luckily, you don't have to say anything. Your style speaks for itself.
Thank you so much, Zecora. I never would've found the crisscross moss without you.
Of course. I know where it grows, so it's not much to ask. Though retrieving it has been a difficult task.
Oh, but the oxen visiting Sweet Feather Sanctuary next week will surely appreciate it. It really adds a shine to their coat.
There we go. Now, that wasn't so tough. Fluttershy, tell me, will this be enough?
Gee, I don't know. It's a pretty big pack. So maybe enough to fill up this sack? [gasps, laughs] Oh, my! You're rubbing off on me, Zecora!
Whoa. Whoa!
[screams] Oh, no, oh, no, oh, no!
Zecora, are you all right?
No need to fret. I only got wet. At least now I can easily grab all the crisscross moss there is to be had.
[gasps] What's happening to you?
Honestly, it's hard to tell. But suddenly, I don't feel so well...
Dr. All right, Zecora. Let's have a listen to the old ticker.
Dr. Hmm. Hmm. Hmm.
Do you think it's serious, doctor?
Dr. Well, that wasn't a good sign.
I can't believe a flower did this. I take back thinking it was pretty!
Dr. Mm-hmm. We're looking for any color other than red.
Dr. Oh, it's just as I thought. I'm afraid you have a very rare disease called... [echoing] Swamp Fever!
Tell me, doctor. What should I do? I've never heard of Swamp Fever, mind you.
Dr. Unfortunately, very little is known about the disease. Except, of course, its symptoms – change of coat, coughing bubbles, shock sneezing, confusion, and the last stage, the afflicted turn into the very trees that drop the disease-spreading flower.
Oh! Is there anything that can be done for such a terrible conundrum?!
Dr. A cure has yet to be discovered. I'm sorry, Zecora.
Hmmm.
Dr. It's a lot to take in. I'll leave you two to discuss.
Zecora, this is all my fault! If you hadn't been helping me get the crisscross moss, you wouldn't have gotten Swamp Fever. I'm so sorry.
Fluttershy, you are not to blame. These things happen all the same.
I refuse to accept that! There has to be somepony who can help you!
Oh. There's a healer of legend who never would fail. But I only know her from ancient folktales. Mystical and masked, she came in the night and cured everything from hoof cough to fur blight. What became of the healer, nopony knows, for she disappeared ages and ages ago.
The Mystical Mask! Of course! My parents would tell me about her whenever I was sick in bed.
There's so many accounts of her power to heal. She can't just be a legend. I think she's real.
If that's who we need to cure you, then I'm going to find her! And I know just the pony who can help!
[pants] Oh.
Twilight? Twilight? Twilight! Oh, I'm so sorry to bother— Are... Are you cooking?
Yeah! Spike and I are having a cook-off!
My cauliflower bites blew her sweet potato muffins out of the water!
I'm glad you're here, Fluttershy, because we're gonna need a second opinion about that.
[grunts, gulps, grunts, gulps] Um, they're both delicious, but... [quickly] Zecora-has-Swamp-Fever-and-there's-no-cure-and-it's-all-my-fault-and-the-only-pony-who-can-cure-it-is-the-Mystical-Mask-and-I-need-your-help-to-find-her!
Uh...
So, what'd she pick? The cauliflower bites, right?
[sighs] That's the last book on ancient ponies, and still no mention of the Mystical Mask.
Hmm. Did we check the unabridged versions?
Yes, and the books on rare diseases, the books on rare plants, and the entire section on bog habitation.
Well, we might have to look through every book in the entire library, but I know we'll figure it out.
Oh.
[sighs] Another dead end. Have you found anything yet, Twilight?
Twilight?
Aah!
Goodness! Are you okay?
[sighs] I'm fine. Fluttershy, you know that I want to help Zecora. But I think we'd be a lot better off if we got some sleep. We've been at this for hours.
Oh, I'm so sorry. I didn't realize how late it had gotten.
No problem. I'll grab you a pillow and—
Oh, no-no-no. I meant you should sleep. I can't rest until Zecora is healed.
I understand how you feel, but I still think we'd have more luck if we tried again in the morning. Just promise me you'll take a break soon.
[not listening] Mm-hmm.
[yawns] Good night, Fluttershy.
[snoring] 9-by-13-inch pan...
Twilight!
[awake] Nonstick pans!
[groans] What's all the commotion in here, ladies?
Sorry, but I figured out who the Mystical Mask is!
[gasps] You did?!
All I had to do was cross-reference a book about masks with another book on ancient Equestrian healers, then use a third book to translate it all from Olde Ponish, and there it was! Zecora was right! The Mystical Mask wasn't just a legend. The Mystical Mask was Mage Meadowbrook!
[gasps deeply] The ancient sorceress from Hayseed Swamp? We studied her at Celestia's school! Are you sure?
Absolutely! Mage Meadowbrook wasn't just a sorceress. She was also a healer, and back then, healers wore masks so they wouldn't get sick themselves!
Fluttershy, I am so incredibly proud of you for using your research skills to figure this out! But Meadowbrook lived ages ago, and didn't she disappear?
Mm-hmm. But if we go to Hayseed Swamp, maybe we can find something she left behind! Something that could lead to a cure!
It seems like a long shot, but I guess it's possible.
[grunting] We have to try! I've got a route all planned out, and on the way, we can check up on Zecora, and then—
Whoa, whoa, whoa. We're leaving now?
Of course! Every second we spend waiting is a second Zecora is coughing bubbles!
But Fluttershy, you haven't slept! And that's a long journey!
There's no use trying to talk me out of this, Twilight! [grunts] We've got no time to waste!
Can we at least grab some breakfast?
I packed cauliflower bites.
Aw. No sweet potato muffins?
And that's when I realized the Mystical Mask was actually Mage Meadowbrook!
[coughs] That's marvelous, Fluttershy. I am quite impressed. While you are gone on your journey, I'll try not to be... worried.
[gasps] Oh, no. Zecora, you didn't rhyme! You must be getting worse.
[gasps] That's it! We have to go now!
Lead the way, Fluttershy.
So... [chuckles nervously] where do you think Meadowbrook lived?
[yawns] I'm not sure. Maybe there's somepony we can ask.
I think we might be the only ponies here.
Wait! I recognize that tree! [gasps] Yes! This has to be it! It's just like the illustrations of her home!
Anypony who lives in a tree is okay by me.
Or we could try the handle.
[laughs nervously] It really blends in with the bark.
Easy to miss.
Wow. It looks like this place has been abandoned for years. [gasps] Twilight, look! It's the same kind of lilypad that gave Zecora Swamp Fever! Hmm. I wonder if Meadowbrook was looking for a cure for Swamp Fever, too. [gasps] Do you think she found it?
I hope so, but let's not get ahead of ourselves.
That's exactly what I'm talking about. You're making your excited squeaking noise!
Uh, I wasn't making my excited squeaking noise.
[Cajun accent] Y'all can stop screamin' now. Didn't mean to scare ya. I do that a lot.
Scare ponies or rock creepily in the dark?
Well, both, I s'pose. Name's Cattail. Pleased to meet ya.
Likewise, but, um, may I ask, why are you in Mage Meadowbrook's home?
Oh, I take care of the place. I ain't much of a cleaner, but from what I hear, my kin wasn't neither. So I doubt they'd mind a few cobwebs in our ancestral home.
[gasps] You're related to Mage Meadowbrook?
Mm-hmm.
Oh, my goodness, Twilight, we did it! Not only did we find Mage Meadowbrook's old house – we actually found one of her descendants!
Honestly, I would not have guessed it.
So you're lookin' for some kind o' cure, huh? Well, now, I know Meadowbrook was known to always be writin' in her journals. If she had the cure you want, I reckon that's where it'd be. Come on. I'll show ya the library.
Library?! Now we're talkin'!
Oh. Well... [chuckles] Libraries come in all shapes and sizes.
This is good. It'll take us less time to go through everything.
[blows air, reading] "Today, my mom made me eat peas. Peas are yucky." And we can probably skip this one, unless she found a cure when she was a foal.
Wait! Listen to this! [reading] "Today, I tried again to brew an unsniffle elixir..."
[crossfading] [Cajun accent] ...and I finally got it right!
Meadowbrook' Meadowbrook, I think it's time you had this.
[gasps] My very own healer's mask! You think I'm ready, mother?
Meadowbrook' Mm-hm.
Meadowbrook' [gasps] What caused this?
[narrating] Mother calls it Swamp Fever. We've been tryin' to find a cure, but it hasn't been easy.
[narrating] The fever spread like wildfire.
[narrating] I fear if we don't find a cure soon, everypony will be in grave danger!
[narrating] With mother sick, I didn't think I'd ever find a cure. But starin' at those cursed flowers today, I saw somethin'.
[gasps] Flash bees! [narrating] I realized the flowers' poison didn't affect the flash bees. And if they were immune to Swamp Fever, their honey could be the cure!
[narrating] But they were so aggressive defendin' their hive, I didn't know how I was gonna get it!
Here goes nothin'!
[narrating] Today, I cured mother...
[crossfading] ...and the rest of the bayou!
[reading] "It was the greatest feeling I've ever experienced, and I promise to dedicate my life to curing ponies all over Equestria!"
And she did just that. Right up 'til she disappeared without a trace.
So all we have to do is find those aggressive flash bees and get them to give us their honey! Of course, it doesn't say how she did that...
What? Is my mane messy? I know I haven't slept in a while, but... [gasps] Oh, no! I've caught Swamp Fever!
Huh?
[slightly muffled] Are you sure these are necessary?
What?
I said, are you sure these are necessary?
Yes! I won't risk infecting you or Cattail!
What you can't risk is getting any sicker! If you don't rest, your symptoms will only get worse!
Mm-hmm. You really should rest up before going up against those flash bees. They are nasty critters.
Um, you don't know this about me, but I'm pretty good with animals. And besides, Dogtail—
Cattail.
Um, Zecora is counting on me. I have to help her, just like Meadowbrook helped her mother and all those bayou ponies long ago!
But Fluttershy, as much as Meadowbrook took care of other ponies, I'm sure she also took care of herself.
[strained] You're not gonna change my mind, Twilight!
Ooh. For bein' sick, she sure is strong.
The flash beehive is just up yonder.
Are you sure you don't want me to come with you?
Hello, flash bees! I was hoping I could get some of your honey.
Oh! I see. You don't let others have any. Well, I'm sorry, but I really need it.
[squeaks] I didn't want it to have to come to this, but I'll just have to use... the Stare!
[groans] What happened? Where am I?
[exhales] I'm so glad you're okay. You're still in Meadowbrook's tree.
You fainted, but Twilight shot some magic up and caught ya. It was crazy.
Goodness gracious! [coughs] Have you heard from Zecora? Is she okay?
Uh...
We got word your zebra friend has started sproutin' leaves.
She's already turning into a tree?! I thought we'd have more time!
Actually, you've been asleep for three days.
Three days?!
Mm-hmm. You were asleep so long, we were afraid you wouldn't be able to move when you woke up. But thankfully, you just wore yourself down!
Oh, dear. We have to get back to the hive! I've wasted so much time, and—!
Now hang on there, Fluttershy. Those flash bee critters are tricky.
Cattail's right. I can't even use magic to calm them down. We'll have to find another way to get the honey.
He's been through a lot these past three days.
Wait... Disguises...
[gasps] That's it! I know how she did it! I know how Meadowbrook got the honey!
This is how Meadowbrook got the honey from the flash bees!
She threw a mask at 'em? I wouldn't recommend that.
No. The male bees aren't aggressive around the queen bee, and this mask has the same stripes that she does.
Fluttershy, that's brilliant!
Whoa!
There's no time to waste!
Hooves crossed!
Oh, golly! I can't watch!
[coughs] Mind over matter!
Twilight... It's working!
I think she's cured now, Fluttershy.
Ohhh, I do feel fine, and this honey is divine.
Oh, you're rhyming again! Welcome back, my friend!
Thank you, Fluttershy, for all you endured. If not for you, I would not be cured.
Oh, if it wasn't for me, you wouldn't have been sick in the first place.
Regret is not what you should feel, because on this journey, you've learned a great deal.
That's true. I certainly learned that if you don't take care of yourself, you won't be able to take care of anypony else. In fact, if I had rested like Twilight had suggested all along, maybe I would have thought to use Meadowbrook's mask sooner.
Okay! let's see how your still life's comin' along, Kettle Corn!
Well, that certainly is... round.
I can make it rounder!
I'm afraid that's all the time we have today. We'll try somethin' else tomorrow.
But I like circle painting.
And on the way to figuring out what you're meant to do, you'll find a ton more stuff you like. That's what makes looking for your cutie mark so great.
Mm-hmm.
Sorry, everypony. We're closin' up shop. We'll have to help you out tomorrow.
Awwww!
I don't know if we can help them tomorrow. Working with blank flanks one at a time takes forever.
If only there was a way we could help a whole herd of them at once.
That would be perfect! We'd save time and they could help each other!
Just like we used to! Oh, but it'd have to be somewhere big enough to handle all those blank flanks.
Somewhere outside, with tons of activities to try.
Are you two thinkin' what I'm thinkin'?
Cutie Mark Day Camp!
And I know just the place, Applejack used to go there when she was little.
Camp Friendship! Oh. Sorry. I thought we were all gonna yell that one too.
Attention, all blank flanks!
And blank flank affiliates! Come to our cutie mark day camp to find out what you're truly good at!
Bond with other blank flanks and find out what you're meant to do together!
Hey, Rumble!
Oh, hey, Crusaders. Look, I can't stop. I've gotta meet my brother for... something.
No problem. Just wanted to make sure you heard about our cutie mark day camp. The first session's tomorrow.
What'cha got there, little brother?
What? Oh, nothing. Come on! I want to show you a new dive roll I'm trying.
Come one, come all! Cutie Mark Day Camp is for blank flanks of all kinds!
Hmmm...
Welcome, cutie mark campers!
Who's excited to be here?
Well, we're excited too! At Cutie Mark Day Camp, you'll be able to try all kinds of things!
Kayaking!
Horseshoe-tossing!
Circle-painting!
You can try 'em all! But the most important thing is that you'll be tryin' them together.
That's what worked for us!
Then I bet it'll work for these little guys too!
I thought you said we were gonna go practice for the Wonderbolts Ponyville Extravaganza show.
I'm going to Wonderbolt practice. You're going to cutie mark practice.
And we're glad to have you!
I can't believe your own brother is a Wonderbolt!
U-Uh, Rainbow Dash is practically my sister, and she's a Wonderbolt too!
Do you know Spitfire?
I know she'll be mad if I'm late. [to Rumble] Now you have a good time and try some stuff. Who knows what you'll be good at?
All right! Looks like we found the first activity of the day – the horseshoe toss!
Well, wish I could stay and play, but it's time to fly. Have fun!
Come on, Rumble!
Step on up and show us how it's done!
No way he's as good as his brother.
Egh.
[unenthusiastic] Whoops. Aw, it looks like I won't be getting my cutie mark in the horseshoe toss...
Don't worry about it, Rumble. Hardly anypony finds their calling on the first try.
Eh, I wasn't worried.
Good! 'Cause there's a ton of other stuff to try. We'll find you something you're good at.
Whoops.
Whoopsie.
Whoops.
The first and last lines Have five sy-lla-bles but the Mid-ddle has sev-en.
It's called a haiku.
[spits] [unenthusiastic] Whoops. I've tried it all. Time to tell my brother this Camp isn't for me.
Come on, Rumble. Isn't it fun just trying stuff?
Not really.
Haiku cutie mark! And I never would have tried Without Skeedaddle.
That's what Cutie Mark Day Camp is all about.
Working together and helping each other.
But I can still come back, right? And maybe paint some circles?
Of course! Let's all meet right back here tomorrow.
Hooray!
Wow. I can't believe we got a cutie mark on the first day!
Yup. This camp was a pretty swell idea. Everypony's really enjoyed it.
[sighs] Everypony except Rumble. He didn't have much luck with anything.
Trying to find out what you're meant to do can be frustrating. You remember how long it took us to get our cutie marks?
[shivers] I remember the nightmares.
Well, we can't let Rumble quit camp just because he didn't find something he's good at then.
We'll just have to convince him to come back and try harder!
Mm-hmm!
Hey, Rumble!
What are you all doing here?
We just wanted to apologize for not finding anything you liked today.
Oh. Whatever. It's fine.
It's not fine. It's frustrating, and we know what it's like.
I'm not frustrated!
It's okay! We've all been there. But we won't give up on helping you.
We know you'll get your cutie mark. Everypony does.
Actually, I don't need your help. Because I don't want to get my cutie mark!
What?!
I... I must have hay in my ears, because I thought I just heard Rumble say—
You heard right! I don't want my cutie mark!
[gasps] He said it again!
Not wanting a cutie mark is like not wanting to breathe!
Everypony wants to know what they're meant to do!
Hmph! Not this pony.
Why?!
Because cutie marks are silly, and... a-and they just force you into one thing your whole life!
That's silly. Having a cutie mark doesn't mean you can't do other things.
Yeah! Our cutie marks are in helpin' other ponies with their cutie marks, but I still like makin' potions with Zecora.
And when was the last time you did that?
Um... I-I-I think it was, uh... Well, we've been pretty busy helpin' other ponies lately.
Oh. You mean doing the thing you got your cutie mark for? The thing you're stuck doing for the rest of your life?!
Okay. Maybe we will be doing that more than anything else. But we love being Cutie Mark Crusaders!
Well, that's fine for you, but I'm not gonna be put in a box!
A blank flank who doesn't want a cutie mark? That's gotta be the strangest thing I've ever heard.
Granny always says, "Some ponies have to find their own hay."
Are you sure she didn't mean "find their own way"?
Oh. That would make more sense.
I can't believe Rumble isn't interested in getting his cutie mark either, but we can't force him.
And we've got a whole camp full of ponies who are interested in getting cutie marks.
Mm-hmm.
[sighs] Here he comes. The fastest, most elite flyer in Equestria!
Thunderlane!
Whoa! [yelps] Urgh... I was gonna say me. You're not the only Pegasus in the family, you know.
Oh, sorry, little brother. You're right. You might be the most elite flyer in Equestria some day. But for now, you should try other things, too! Speaking of which, aren't you supposed to be at camp?
[scoffs] That camp is for losers who can't do anything.
Great, so there's no pressure. You can try everything and not be worried about looking bad.
I'm not worried about that. I just don't want to get a cutie mark in any of their ridiculous activities.
Well, you're still going back tomorrow. You can't be a blank flank forever!
Huh...
All right, cutie mark campers, that's it for jam-making!
But this is fun, and I didn't get my cutie mark yet. What if I'm not good at anything else?
You don't get a cutie mark just because you're good at something or even because you like it. There's more to it than that.
I'm real good at painting circles, but I got my cutie mark in haikus.
Which is what I like! But... I'm still a blank flank like you.
So you can't get a cutie mark in something you like?
Now, we didn't say that.
You don't have to!
Rumble, you came back!
Say bye-bye to painting circles. You'll be too busy haiku-ing from now on!
But... I like circles.
Come on, Rumble. That's not how cutie marks work.
So that's how cutie marks work?
Am I speakin' Olde Ponish?! I just said it wasn't!
"Cutie marks are great," they say Pfft, yeah, right! They make you special in your way But that special mark that's just for you Will erase the stuff you liiiiiiike... to do
So, no more painting?
No more haiku?
Rumble, stop! That's just not true!
So you're good at charming snakes Too bad! Or you bake delicious cakes Oh, well! Maybe there are lots of things That you like to do Well, your options get pretty stark Once you got that cutie mark
Blank flanks are better Nopony to tell you who you have to be Blank flanks are better Keep your spirit soarin' free
So listen up 'cause I ain't lyin' Don't need no mark, so why keep tryin'? If you like just bein' you Then keepin' that blank flank blank Is the thiiiiiiiing to do
You say there's nothin' you can do?
Yeah, exactly!
A blank flank is the way for you It's no work to just be who you are No hunt to be some cutie star You're perfect just being you Don't bother with what you cannot do
Blank flanks!
...are better Nopony to tell you who you have to be
Blank flanks!
...are better Keep your spirit soarin' free
So listen up 'cause I ain't lyin'
Don't need no mark...
...so why keep tryin'? If you like just bein' you Then keepin' that blank flank blank Is the thiiiiiiiiiing to do!
Blank flanks!
Whoopee!
Now wait just an apple-pickin' minute, Rumble. Where do you think you're leadin' our campers?
They're not your campers anymore! I'm starting a new camp!
Everypony on this side of the line is in Camp Blank Flanks Forever!
Whoa-whoa! You can't be a blank flank forever!
That's just the kind of talk I'd expect to hear from Camp Cutie Mark! Which is why blank flanks need a camp where we can enjoy being blank flanks and appreciate our blank flankiness without being pressured to get a cutie mark!
Now hold on, everypony.
Blank flanks forever!
What just happened?
Has everypony gone mad?!
In a word: yes.
I just can't see what we did wrong. I thought everypony was having fun.
They were until that Rumble came and made a mess of things. What are they doing now?
It looks like whatever they want.
Honestly, it's not all that different from what they were doing here.
Then what was the point?
Point is that Rumble is a madpony who must be stopped!
Now calm down, Crusaders. We just need to talk to him again. The key is to remain calm.
[yelling] Cutie marks... make you... special!
By putting you in a special little box!
[yelling] Special!
Box!
Come on, Sweetie Belle. I think you've "remained calm" long enough.
Kettle Corn, you covered your cutie mark?!
I'm blank flank again, Keeping my options open. I'm more than haikus.
You just haiku'd right then!
Don't let them get in your head! You're an open-ended question! Blank flanks forever!
Blank flanks forever!
Blank flanks forever! Blank flanks forever!
Whoa! You're cracking great!
Thanks! [gasps] Oh, no! What if I get a cutie mark in it?!
Then you'll be stuck doing it forever! Blank flanks, no more potential cutie mark activities!
Well, Cutie Mark Day Camp is a bust.
No, it isn't! It's a swell idea! We just can't seem to talk any sense into that... that Rumble.
Maybe we can't, but I bet I know somepony who can.
Lemme get this straight. My little brother up-ended your entire camp? How in Equestria did he do that?
No, I don't. Rumble's good at all that stuff.
Well, that doesn't make a lick of sense. Unless... he was bein' bad at stuff on purpose!
[sighs] I was afraid of this...
Afraid of what?
Ever since I became a Wonderbolt, Rumble's either watching me or trying to fly like me. He won't do anything else. That's why I thought your camp was such a good idea.
I don't understand. If Rumble wants to be a Wonderbolt someday, what's wrong with that?
Not a thing. But right now, he isn't even giving anything else a chance.
Sounds to me like Rumble isn't afraid of bein' put in a box at all.
It doesn't?
Nope. I think Rumble's already picked out a box. He's afraid he'll get a cutie mark that'll keep him from it.
I don't know how to say this, Rumble, but Blank Flank Forever Camp is kinda...
Boring?
If we wanna stay blank flanks, we can't risk doing stuff.
What if I get a cutie mark in being bored?
Attention, blank flanks of Cutie Mark Day Camp!
The Cutie Mark Crusaders are pleased to announce today's special guest – Thunderlane!
Hey, everypony! It's me!
Anypony who's interested, gather 'round for a day of activities with a genuine Wonderbolt!
Uh, sorry, Rumble. But cutie mark or not, I'm not missing out on this!
Whoa!
All right, campers. It's time for our last activity of the day.
A Wonderbolt obstacle course! Just like the one they'll fly through in their upcoming show!
But on the ground, since not everypony has wings.
Thunderlane, aren't you gonna run the course?
Nope! I know I'm a Wonderbolt and my cutie mark is all about moving fast, but I really like to cook!
Since when?
We take turns making the meals at Wonderbolts HQ. I didn't want to at first, but now I love it! I just wish I'd tried it sooner.
You do?
Of course! There's more to me than just flying, and I bet there's more to you, too.
Obstacles are fun! Running free through mud and dirt Beats circle painting!
That haiku pretty well sums it up.
Looks like Thunderlane was right about the obstacle course getting Rumble to come back over.
Hey, Rumble. Aren't you gonna do our Wonderbolt course?
I'm cooking today. Maybe I'll do the course tomorrow.
So you're comin' back tomorrow?
You're not worried about getting your cutie mark?
Nah. I already know I'm a good flyer. It kinda runs in the family. I guess it's time to see what other stuff I can do.
Hm-hmm.
Oh!
[belches, sighs] Aw, thank goodness. I thought I had too many deep-fried gems.
[mutters] It's from my parents! Spike, they won a zeppelin cruise and get to take the whole family! [sighs] I wish I had time to go with them, but there's just too many princess duties I have to take care of.
Come on, Twilight. Even Princess Celestia takes a break sometimes, and she raises the sun.
You need a vacation! I can keep track of the friendship log, boost community morale, and answer fan mail for a few days.
But, Spike, you're as much a part of my family as anypony. I can't just leave you here to do all that work.
[loudly] What?! I can't hear you! You're on vacation!
I guess I could use a little time off from being a princess. You're the best, Spike!
I know.
I'm gonna go pack everything neatly into one suitcase!
Wait for it...
[shouting] Cruises have activities, right?! I should probably make a schedule?!
There it is.
Oh, gee. I am really looking forward to a relaxing vacation.
Watch out. She won't admit it, but when your mother says "relaxing vacation", she means "doing something crazy". Last time, she ended up bungee-jumping over Luna Bay!
What was that, hon?
Oh, I was, uh, just telling Twilight about my new, uh, bingo strategy book! It's a, heh, real page-turner!
Oh, I can't wait to get on this zeppelin and fly like a Pegasus!
Really? I remember you getting airsick on Admiral Fairweather's Wild Ride at Pony Island.
Oh, please! I grew out of airsickness a long time ago.
[over loudspeaker] I hope you ponies feel welcomed aboard, because you are!
Well, that was an... assertive welcome.
Guess this is what it's like to be big-time prize winners. [laughs] I just wish I could remember what contest we won.
Wait. You don't know where this prize came from?
When somepony offers you a free vacation, you just sign the paperwork and don't ask questions!
Especially when it means we all get to fly off together. What should we do first?
Well, I did categorize the ship's activities and make a schedule organized by each of our interests. Dad, you're easy. Bingo competition right here.
Oh, I just love how the numbers and letters are organized in their little boxes. It's so satisfying.
Shining Armor, they've got a tiny boat race in a tiny pool here.
Aw, sis. Only you would remember I love tiny things.
And Cadance, there's a Peewee Princess Playtime here that Flurry's gonna love!
Oh, wonderful!
Hmm. This barrel jumping at Neighagra Falls sounds interesting.
Eh. I just want to see you all have a good time. And this works out perfectly, because we have room for the one thing I wanna do! Our ship passes the Frozen North at sunset, which is the only time you can see the astrological phenomenon known as the Northern Stars. It's like the stars are shooting out of the setting sun!
Well, we definitely don't want to miss that.
Then it's settled. Hmm. But we don't have anything to do right now. Any suggestions?
[over loudspeaker] Attention, cruise ponies! Don't let this zeppelin be a bore! Leave your room and see the tour!
A tour could be fun.
I'm afraid Flurry may be airsick. Since I know that isn't a problem for you, would you mind taking her below?
[over loudspeaker] Far to our right, you can just make out the white tufts of Cloudsdale, where Princess Twilight Sparkle once toured the weather factory.
How'd he know that? And why announce it on a cruise?
Why don't we move to the other side of the deck?
[over loudspeaker] We are now high enough to see all of Canterlot, even the royal tree where Princess Twilight and her brother Shining Armor were born!
What? That's not right.
[gasps] Oooh!
Let's get down for that!
Um, you guys know that's not where we were born. What are you so excited about?
Well, it is a really nice tree, sweetheart.
"Raspberry Sorbet": We just wanted to say how excited we are to be here!
Um... yeah. Us, too.
[over loudspeaker] On our route north, we will pass the spires of the Crystal Empire, where Princess Cadance rescued her Alicorn baby Spike from a monster made of fire!
Well, that doesn't even make sense.
Well, "Royal Grandparents" sounds a bit fancy, but of course you can take our picture.
What?!
Uh... Oh!
Okay, that's it! Does anypony know where the cruise announcer is?
Excuse me, sir.
You can call Iron Will "Iron Will"!
[gasps] What are you doing here? And why do you keep announcing random things about me and my family?
The assertiveness seminar market dried up, so Iron Will started a new career organizing themed vacation packages!
And the theme of this vacation is...
[over loudspeaker] Everypony, stomp your hooves if you are here for the premiere Cruise of the Princesses Experience!
Iron Will, I'm not sure it was entirely honest of you to offer this cruise to my family without telling us that ponies bought tickets just to see Cadance and me!
Iron Will outlined all the details of the cruise in the Prize Acceptance and Consent Form that you signed.
Well, when somepony offers you a free vacation, who reads the fine print?
Iron Will prides himself on providing a quality vacation experience. But if Twilight Sparkle and her family don't want it, Iron Will can cancel the cruise and break the hearts of every princess-adoring pony on board.
I love you, Princess Twilight!
As much as I want a family vacation, I don't think I could entertain all these cruise ponies. My hooves are pretty full taking care of Flurry Heart.
I guess we were just so excited by the idea of a family cruise.
[sighs heavily] All right. I guess we better turn this ship around.
Wait! Iron Will, what if I offered you a deal? If I agree to do whatever princess activities you want, will you promise that my family gets to do the activities they want?
Sis, you don't have to do that. We want you to enjoy yourself, too.
I don't want the vacation to end now or let down all these ponies who were looking forward to seeing us. So what do you say, Iron Will? Do we have a deal?
Princess Twilight has a deal!
Great! So it looks like we have some time before Dad plays Bingo.
Actually, we have just enough to pick the winner of our grand-prize raffle.
Oh. Well... [chuckles] who doesn't like prizes?
All right, cruise ponies! When the zeppelin flies, it's time for a prize!
Thank you all for being so gracious and respectful to me and my family. And now, without further ado, the winner is...
Star Tracker!
Congratulations, Star Tracker! Enjoy your prize! Okay, Dad! Bingo time!
Uh... Oh. I'm sorry. I don't have the prize.
Congratulations to Star Tracker, who wins the grand prize – spending the day with Twilight as an honorary member of her family!
That's the prize?!
Okay, well... I guess you should come with us, honorary family member.
Sure! [laughs] There's always room at the bingo table!
[amplified] Ahem! Is everypony ready?
Sure are, sweetie! Give that cage a whirl!
Dad? [amplified] What did you say?
He... He said to, uh, uh, give it a-a whirl. Heh.
Oh. Um, thanks.
[amplified] I-19!
Hey, hey! Now we're talkin'! This Princess Bingo is great!
Did you get that one, Dad? [amplified] Can anypony tell me how my dad is doing?
He, uh, he said the Princess Bingo is, uh, great. Heh.
Twilight is my favorite time of day. [laughs] And it's also your name. [laughs] So I just thought that was cool.
Phew! Just made it!
And I'm ready to give you the tiny boat race of your life!
Are you sure you're not airsick, big brother?
I don't think that's how it works. But I'm ready if you are.
Technically, Princess Twilight Sparkle should officiate the princess paddle boat race.
Well, I suppose I could could race your brother.
Oh. Well, as long as Shining Armor gets to race, I'm happy.
[nervous noises] S-Sorry.
[nervous] I'm gonna write about this race tonight in my journal! [nervous noises] It's just so exciting!
On your mark, get set—
[nauseous] Just so everypony knows, I'm getting out of this boat because of how not sick I feel.
Aww, that's all right, dear. We'll take you back to the room.
[through microphone] That was just the first heat! Of ten!
Now, who's ready to see a princess face when they win their race?!
Cadance, I'm so glad you got in the Peewee Princess Playtime!
Flurry is having a wonderful time.
That's great. I'm just on my way to take some old-time Appleloosan photos!
And then do a quick question-and-answer session on becoming an Alicorn before Mom's barrel ride at Neighagra Falls! I really hope I don't miss that.
Twilight, are you sure you don't mind doing all of these princess activities?
Mind? What? Absolutely not. I mean, you guys are having fun, right? [sighs] Besides, I have to make sure these cruise ponies are happy if I want to be a good princess.
You're already a good princess, Twilight.
Honestly, as long as I get to see the Northern Stars tonight with everypony, I'll be happy. But right now, I gotta go take some pictures. See you later!
Why don't you play and make a princess friend?
Uh... I am so sorry, everypony, but it looks like Flurry needs her nap.
Oh, why did that last question have to be a two-parter? I just hope I have time for one barrel ride with Mom!
[gasps] Neighagra Falls was amazing! The endless open air, the water in my mane! Oh! The small confines of the barrel!
Oh, honey, I know you're disappointed, but we waited as long as we could. Maybe you should take a break from these princess things.
Disappointed? No! I've just been answering some detailed questions about Alicorns! You know how much I love details!
I just don't want you to forget. It's your vacation, too.
How can I when it's a totally successful vacation?
All right. Well, uh, we can't wait to see those Northern Stars!
Iron Will lived up to his side of the bargain, and Princess Twilight only has one more thing to do for the day.
[through microphone] It's your last chance. Come get in line if you want the princess to sign!
[sighs] How long have you been waiting?
You were right, Twilight. They were breathtaking.
Aw, we wish you'd been here to see it, sweet-pea, but we're sure you're making a whole bunch of cruise ponies happy.
[laughs] I'm so happy I could cry!
[suddenly indignant] Oh, yeah. The cruise ponies are happy. My family is happy. Even Iron Will is happy.
You know who isn't happy? Me!
[yelp of pain] Augh, my hoof!
[insincerely] I'm sorry. But maybe that wouldn't have happened if you weren't practically standing on my tail! Not even my real family stands so close! Rrgh!
Twilight?
I only made that deal with Iron Will so my family and the cruise ponies could have the vacation they wanted.
What about what you wanted?
I just want everypony to be happy.
Well, sometimes ponies want more from a princess than you can give, and it can be hard to know where to draw the line.
You seem to know pretty well.
Once I had Flurry Heart, the line was easier for me to see. You will always have obligations as a princess, but you also have an obligation to yourself.
[sighs] You're right. I think I need to set some boundaries. But first, I owe somepony an apology.
Aww, how's that, dearie?
Better. Thanks.
[panicking] Uh, I think I should go!
No, Star Tracker. You should stay. I have something to tell you. All of you. I'm glad you all got to do the things you wanted, but I should have stood up for myself so that I could do what I wanted, too. [to Star Tracker] It wasn't fair of me to lash out at you. If I felt like you were standing too close, I should have said something. I'm sorry. [to everypony] What do you say we do something off the schedule?
Who are you?
Yup! We're gonna do something I want us to do, as a family. Honorary members, too.
Now that's cold! This is more like it!
You and your family have been really kind to include me, but you deserve your own vacation together. [laughs nervously] And I'm really glad we met, too!
Ohhh!
[through microphone] Attention, cruise ponies! If it's your dream, come to the deck for ice cream!
Oh, no! Leave the princess alone!
What did you say to Iron Will?
It's okay, everypony. [through microphone] [clears throat] First, I want to thank all of you for coming. It means a lot that you'd spend your hard-earned bits just to be with us. But I honestly came on this cruise to take some time off from being a princess. I'm just a pony, too, after all. And even though I want everypony here to be happy, I'd really like to spend the rest of the cruise relaxing with my family.
Of course, Princess Twilight.
But why was this trip advertised as a Cruise of the Princesses if you just wanted to get away?
[whistling] Iron Will's Cruise of the Princesses makes no guarantees as to the participation of actual princesses.
What?!
But Iron Will learned his lesson before. Satisfaction not guaranteed. No refuuuuuuunds!
Wow. He may be pushy and manipulative, but nopony can say that minotaur isn't prepared.
There's still plenty of activities. We pass Fillydelphia on the way back. I could give Flurry Heart a quick history tour.
That's very thoughtful. But right now, the family and I have something scheduled for you.
Behold! The Northern Stars!
You did all this for me? This is amazing! Thank you. And Shining Armor, I can't believe you're up there even though you're airsick!
I am not air— [gurgles] [nauseous] Oh, okay. Maybe I'm not feeling great!
Oh, dear!
Whatever you say.
Now this is the only activity I need.
Okay. All we need is a dot of salt, a dab of sugar, and a spritz of ginger.
Uh... Are those real measurements? How do you keep track without a recipe?
Pie baking is more art than science. And this will be my masterpiece! It's to celebrate Rainbow Dash's seventy-third Wonderbolt training session!
Seventy-third? That's specific.
I know! The pie is blueberry because Wonderbolt outfits are blue. The crust is rainbow, for obvious reasons. But the most special part is the seventy-three super secret sweets and spices that represent each training session! [giggles] Could you please pass the... [quickly] brown sugar, pink sugar, sweetroot, apple jelly, berry mash, and a towel?
You sure are going to a lot of trouble for Rainbow Dash's pie.
Phew! That's because I know how much she loves them! My pies are her favorite! It's worth all the trouble to see her happy. Now I'm going to need some cocoa powder, cocoa flakes— Ooh! Cocoa bar! [chomp] [mouthful] Want some?
Isn't that for the pie?
[gulps, laughing] Oh, Twilight! That's hilarious! You don't mix chocolate into a blueberry pie! This is my mid morning, pie-making chocolate fuel that keeps this pie baking train chugging down the tracks! [chomp, babbles, gulp] Break time's over! Now let's finish this pie! Chugga-chugga, chugga-chugga, choo-choo!
Good training, everypony. Nice work, Crash. You really added that sparkle to that pressure diamond-drop.
My seventy-third training session? That's specific.
I know! I'm just so proud and happy for you, and I've been counting all your training sessions, and I was going to wait until your hundredth, but I got too excited, and I know how much you love pie, so happy seventy-third training session!
Whaaa?! You didn't have to do this.
I know I didn't have to, but I reeeally wanted to! [squealing] Have a bite.
Whoa! What's that?! Huh. Guess it was nothing. But wow, heh. This pie is the best I've ever had! Mmm! Is that cinnamon?
I knew you'd love it! Have more. I made the whole thing for you.
Really? Oh, that's so great! But I need to go change. A-And then I have to take Tank to the vet. Heh. His sensitive tortoise tummy's been acting up again. Do you mind if I take this pie with me?
Of course not! I gotta get back to my shift at Sugarcube Corner anyway. Congratulations again!
Heh. Thanks.
[sighs] I knew she'd love it. [gasps deeply] Is that...? Is that...?!
Stop!
You didn't see a blueberry rainbow-crust seventy-three-ingredient pie with a slice eaten out of it in here, did you?
Uh... n-no?
Right. Of course you didn't. That would be ridiculous. Because I made it for Rainbow Dash, and she loves my pies. She would never throw them away like trash in the trash with other trash, right? Right?!
Um... riiight?
Hmmm... That pie couldn't have been the one I made. I must be seeing things. I did have a lot of chocolate this morning. [chomp, gulps] But what if I wasn't seeing things? What if that was my pie? [scoffs] That would be bananas! [chuckles, laughing crazily] [gasps] Unless Rainbow Dash's been replaced by an imposter who throws delicious pies away!
Or... has she been brainwashed by a pie-hating evil queen?
You make a good point. Rainbow Dash is too stubborn to be brainwashed. Plus she hates washing. Hmm. There's something else going on here. Let's look up a few of the more recent pies I've made for her. The boysenberry pie I made for her birthday... and her three half-birthday lemon meringues... and the "It's Not Your Birthday But Here's a Pie Anyway Day" custard pie! She ate all of these... Right?
[gasps] Another pie!? Thank you so much! Whoa! What's that?!
[chewing noises] Huh. Guess it was nothing. Heh-heh.
Awesome! Three lemon meringues? Uh... Hey, what's that over there?
[chewing noises] Oh, never mind. Heh. Great pies!
Happy "It's Not Your Birthday But Here's a Pie Anyway" Day!
Thank you! No way! Check that out!
Oh! It's not even my birthday!
Oh, sorry. Guess it was nothing. [slurp] Mmm! But that custard was everything!
Have I ever really seen Rainbow Dash eat one of my pies? And do I always look when somepony points behind me? What's there?! Heh. Good one. But I need answers.
I've sent Rainbow Dash a pie every month she's been a Wonderbolt, and you're telling me you've never seen her eat one?
Spitfire, Soarin, Uhhh...
Uh, affirmative. Or, uh, negative. Um... I-I-I mean, she wasn't seen eating one.
Hmm... Interesting. Very interesting.
Are we under investigation?
As chief detective on the pie case, I've labeled you all ponies-of-interest. So it's best you tell me everything you know.
Well, we have been getting mysterious monthly pie donations.
[gasps] Would you be able to pick these pies out of a line up?
I hear Rainbow Dash's pet tortoise Tank has been having tummy troubles. When did it start?
Dr. About a week ago. Poor Tank had all the telltale signs of sugar overload – jittery shell, sleeplessness, reptilian indigestion.
Hmmm... And this all happened the day after I made Rainbow Dash a "Thanks For Lending Me Your Jacket" peach pie. It seems the pieces of the puzzle are plopping into place, but the picture isn't pretty. [gasps] Note to self – P. Alliteration Pie. Is that everything, Doctor?
Dr. Well, there's also this.
Interesting. Did you have the lab analyze the flavor of that pie?
Dr. No. But you know, Miss Cheerilee was in here not long ago. The class hamster was having similar symptoms. [gasps] Perhaps it's a pie pandemic!
Perhaps. And I just might know Pony Patient Zero!
Dr. Fauna's right. I do always have to remind the foals and fillies not to share the pies with the class hamster. Animals just can't digest pony food.
Indeed. But where do these pies come from?
Well, they're from Rainbow Dash. She drops off her "Day After Rainbow Dash's Half-Birthday" pie every year.
Did you say the day after her half-birthday?! Very, very interesting. Because I give her a pie on her half-birthday every year! And I have a feeling it's the same pie.
Well, wherever it comes from, the students just love it.
I'm so glad. At least I can be sure somepony is.
She didn't eat the blueberry. She didn't eat the banana. She didn't eat the cream, and she didn't eat the chocolate. She didn't eat any of 'em! Why?! And don't tell me this all just started recently! It's been going on for years! Cheerilee said so herself. If there's one thing I know, you can't escape the truth!
Pinkie Pie?! Pinkie Pie!
Whooooaaaa! [grunting] Oh. Party-planning cave. Right. You okay? Or are you just screamin' for fun?
Screaming is fun. But I'm not okay! I've been making Rainbow Dash pies for years, but she doesn't even like them. She's been lying to me!
But everypony loves your pies. they're the greatest thing since sliced apples.
Thank you!
And I could swear I've seen her eat one of your pies before.
Have you reeeaaally?
Um, I... thought I had. That's why I said it?
Are you sure?
Maybe I haven't...?
Exactly! Because it's all been a sham! Rainbow Dash has been laughing at my pies behind my back and scheming of a way to get rid of them for years!
Bring forth the worst-tasting food in all of Equestria!
And now I will destroy Pinkie Pie's horrid abominations, freeing the land of these disgusting pies forever!
Nooooooo!
Good riddance, strawberry cream and peaches 'o plenty! Begone, apple crumble and lemon surprise!
I really don't think that's what's happening.
I don't think so either. I know so.
Well, I've got just the thing to get your mind off all this madness. We've had a great apple harvest, so I was hopin' you could whip up a few of your delicious pies.
Yes. I will make pies. Lots of pies. I'm going to make Rainbow Dash so many pies, it'll force her to admit the truth. Or I'll catch her in the act of getting rid of them. Operation: "Pie of Lies" is a go. Thanks, Applejack. I knew I could count on you to come up with a plan.
I don't think that's what I did. Also, uh... how do you get out of here?
Surprise!
[yelps] W-W-What's happening?!
Happy unofficial "Wake Your Friends Up" Day!
Ugh. I've never heard of "Wake Your Friends Up" Day.
Well, it's unofficial. But I made you your favorite pie in celebration! Ta-da! Gifts are the second most important part of "Wake Your Friends Up" Day.
What's the first most important part?
Accepting the gifts and enjoying them immediately.
Uh... Well, I'm sorry I forgot about "Wake Your Friends Up" Day. Let me make it up to you. Here!
[sneezes] The pie! Where'd it go?!
What do you mean where did it go? Heh-heh. Mmm-mmm.
Congratulations on your seventy-fourth Wonderbolt training session! Here's a pie. Now eat it!
Okay, this is getting a little out of hoof. I haven't even trained yet.
Well, I wanted to pre-celebrate because I already know how great you're gonna do. Eat the pie!
Pinkie, look out!
Pinkie! Are you okay?!
[grunting] Get me down!
Sorry, ma'am, but we have to make sure you didn't sustain any internal injuries.
But the pie! What happened to the pie?!
Oh! The pie was delicious! You just get better!
Noooooooo!
[unconvincing] Ah! Somepony help me! Rainbow Dash, thank goodness you're here! I was trying to fix the top pie on my pie pyramid, but the whole thing became unstable. And there's only one way to save me! You have to eat the pies!
Don't worry, I got ya!
Oh, right. Or you could save me that way.
You gotta be more careful, okay?
[growls] Rrgh!
Rainbow Dash! I wanted to thank you for saving me from the pie pyramid, so have a pie! Have three! Have fifteen! I know how much you love them! Now eat up!
Uh... Thanks!
I can't wait to eat [loudly] all these pies!
What!? Where did they—?! How did you—?!
Delicious! You did it again, Pinkie!
Rainbow Dash, there you are! I made a pie for everypony, and you're the only one who hasn't eaten hers yet. So here. Your pie. For you to eat. Now.
Are you okay? You seem to be staring more than usual.
You sure you don't have to blink?
Me? Nope. I'm not much of a blinker. [licking] Don't mind me. Go ahead and take a bite.
Well... Do I want to take a big bite or a small bite...? I just don't know... Or maybe medium? No, no, no. Definitely not medium.
[panting] [strained] Just try some.
Ahhhh... Do you have any milk?
Ah, never mind. Your pies are just too good to resist.
What?! No! No! That's it! I can't take it!
Uh, everything okay, Pinkie?
No! Everything is not okay! You hate my pies!
What are you talking about?
You know exactly what I'm talking about! I saw what you did! Well, I didn't see what you did. But I know that you've been fake-eating my pies! You threw away the pie I made for your seventy-third Wonderbolt training session, and I know you secretly somehow got rid of all the other pies I gave you! Admit it!
That's crazy! What do you think I did? Somehow make them all disappear into thin air?
[nervous chuckle] Okay. So maybe I made one of them disappear into thin air.
How could you?!
What?! I, uh... I-I just wanted to share these amazing pies with the folks of Cloudsdale! So I, uh... I was trying to send them up via... balloon mail.
But you just said they were delicious.
Well, obviously that's because... I have amnesia!
I've been brainwashed!
I-It's Opposite Day?
Your memory is working fine, you hate washing, and I know today's not Opposite Day because I baked you a pie for it every year. A pie that you'd probably just throw away. Or give to charity. Or destroy with your laser eyes while laughing at me!
Laser eyes?
Oh! Oh! So you admit it!
What? No! I can explain!
I don't want to hear it!
She won't listen to me. She won't let me apologize. [sighs] I feel terrible.
Well, you have been lying to her. To all of us, actually.
Yeah. Is there anything else you're lyin' about that we should know?
No! Well, not that I can think of off the top of my head. Is it my fault that I don't like pies? And not just Pinkie's pies. All pies! I know how much she loves making pies, and if I told her I didn't like them, it would have crushed her.
Uh, you kinda crushed her anyway.
Oh, but I...! [stutters, sighs] You're right. I guess I should've just eaten the pies in the first place. [gasps] Wait! That's it! I know how I can make it up to her!
Pee-yew! Gummy, is that you?
Huh. What is that? Oh. It's you.
Pinkie Pie, wait! I know now that I should've been honest with you from the start, because lying to your friends is wrong. And because getting rid of all those pies was a giant hassle. I mean, do you have any idea how many pies you've made for me over the years?
Yes, I know exactly how many. I have a very detailed pie-ling system.
Of course you do. The point is I thought the hassle was worth it just to spare your feelings, but I was wrong. So to make up for it, I made this pie for you. Well, I guess I made it for me. To eat in front of you. Point is I'm eating this pie for friendship!
Wait. That smelly circular monstrosity is a pie?
Yeah! I know I can't go back and eat all the pies you made for me in the past, so instead I'm going to eat this one giant one for you now. So here I go.
Ahhhh...
Wait! I can't watch you do this!
I mean, is that crust or some kind of concrete?
Yeah, honestly, I have no idea.
Oh, I can't believe you're willing to eat this terrible pie for me. It's ridiculous, and this whole thing is overly complicated, and... [sighs] I think I finally understand why you lied.
Whoa! What's that?!
[chewing noises] Huh. Guess it was nothing. Heh-heh.
[squeals] I'm so glad you enjoyed my pies!
[chewing noises] Oh, never mind. Heh. Great pies!
No way! Check that out!
Oh! It's not even my birthday!
Oh, sorry. Guess it was nothing. [slurp] Mmm! But that custard was everything!
Seeing you eat my pies makes me the happiest pony in all of Equestria!
Heh. I know it does.
You did a lot of ridiculous and overly complex things to get rid of my pies because it made you happy to see me happy. Just like I went to a lot of effort to make you the pies because it made me happy to see you happy.
Yes!
And if you're willing to go through all of that, it really shows how much you're willing to do for your friends.
Aw, shucks. It was nothing.
Now get out of that thing and give me a hug!
Just remember. In the future, you can always be honest with me.
Uh, I could've told her that.
[straining] Heh. Cool. H-How about this? Your hugs are too tight.
[laughing] No, they're not.
Oooh! Excuse me. When does the noon train from the Crystal Empire arrive?
"All Aboard": Uh... noon?
Heh. Right. Sorry. I'm just a little excited because my friend Sunburst is coming.
He's my oldest friend. I mean, we've known each other practically forever. We have tons in common.
We both love magic and games and jokes – everything, really. Now that I think about it, there isn't a pony in all of Equestria I have more in common with.
Starlight?
[gasps] Sunburst! You made it!
Of course! I've been looking forward to this visit for a long time.
[grunts] Whoa. How long are you staying?
Uh, just a... little reading for the train.
[chuckles] Same old Sunburst. [grunts] It's going to be so great spending time together. Just like old times. You and me doing the stuff we like – games, magic...
Antiquing.
What?
Antiquing. You know I like antiquing.
You do?
Um, of course! Historical knickknacks, ancient relics... Oh! You are so lucky! Ponyville is antique central!
It is?
How have we never talked about this? We are going antiquing, and you are gonna love it!
Okay. Let's drop your stuff off at the castle first.
This is so great! Who knew I'd be the one showing you the cool sights of Ponyville?
I'm a little surprised myself.
Wow! What a difference between the hoof-molded bricks and the extruded ones, right?
Uh-huh... Ha-ha...
Oooh! Check out all these chandeliers! Sometimes, the crystals have magical properties.
Oh. Oh, that's cool. How do you—?
Sunburst! I'm so glad you're here!
In the antique store?
In Ponyville! Starlight's really been looking forward to your visit. Though I'm glad you're in the antique store, too. I'm usually the only one.
That's crazy! Who doesn't like antiquing, right?
[nervous chuckle] Right.
Oooh, look! An ancient map of Equestria made by the Mighty Helm.
Without the help of unicorn magic or Pegasus flight, the Earth ponies of the Mighty Helm were able to map the entire coast of Equestria.
Coooool...
You don't have to pretend to like all this stuff.
What? No! I do like it. I mean, if you like it, I like it. Besides, we've almost looked at everything, right?
Oh, wow! You have got to see this Saddle Arabian vanity!
This shop looked a lot smaller from the outside.
Did you see this Palominian letter opener?
Wow! That goes well with this ancient phoenix feather quill! We could write to each other!
[joins laughter, sighs] Um, I-I really like this old-timey barrel.
Actually, the stuff I bought is inside the barrel. But I can't wait to see what it is!
Wait. You don't know what you bought?
Mm-mmm. It's a blind buy. Sometimes shops get too busy to go through everything, so they load up a box or barrel and sell it without knowing what's inside.
Buying one is sort of like a treasure hunt.
Once I found a first edition History of Equestria in the original Olde Ponish.
Hliet foresettan pliht!
It's an Olde Ponish saying. "Reward prefers risk!" Uh, it loses something in the translation.
Why don't we look through this stuff later?
Yeah. What do you want to do, Starlight?
Well, I don't know if you're gonna remember this, but...
[gasps] Is this...?!
Dragon Pit!
I remember that game. You two used to play it?
Pretty much any time we weren't working on magic. I can't believe you found a copy!
Sunburst would get so excited whenever his dragon got trapped, he knocked the whole board over.
That's adorable.
Uh, well, it's an exciting game. But I have a little more control over my horn now.
Uh-oh! Somepony's dragon's gonna get trapped!
Doesn't seem so exciting to m—
Huh. I guess it is adorable.
I hope you're enjoying your visit so far.
Are you kidding? I mean, first antiquing and then spending time with Twilight?
Oh. Yeah. She's pretty great.
Right? I mean, I know she's a princess, but I never thought she'd be so fun to just hang out with.
Well, she is the Princess of Friendship.
[chuckle] Right. I guess that makes sense.
So tomorrow I thought—
I suppose I'm just surprised at how well we get along. I don't have much in common with most ponies.
You two are pretty similar. I don't know many ponies who are fluent in Olde Ponish.
Exactly! I probably have more in common with Twilight than any pony in Equestria!
Right...
[sighs] Anyway, I better get some sleep. [yawns] Ponyville might be small, but there's a lot to do. Maybe we should ask Twilight what she recommends we see!
Um... sure.
Great! Good night, Starlight.
Um...
...Good night.
[singsong] Knock, knock!
[yelps] Oh. Hi, Starlight. [yawns] Is it morning already?
Yup! Maybe a bit early, but like you said, there's a lot to see in Ponyville.
Uh... Right. Okay.
Plus, I couldn't really sleep. I just kept thinking about all the stuff we have in common and how much fun we'll have today.
Great. Uh, is Twilight up yet?
Actually, I'm pretty sure she's busy with princess stuff today.
But I've got a full day of stuff planned. Just you and me.
Uh, great. Um, would you mind turning around or preferably... leaving the room so I could get changed?
One genuine Sweet Apple Acres apple tree! Because we used to drink so much apple juice as foals?
Uh, I don't remember that.
[yelps] Ow.
Trixie? What are you doing here?
Huh. I often seek the privacy of the orchard to practice new feats of amazement. And also, I fell asleep.
Oh. Well, Sunburst and I were just catching up, so—
[gasps] I don't suppose the two of you want to see a never-before-witnessed magical marvel?
Sure!
[sighs] Why not?
Behold, visiting friend from Starlight's past, and be amazed by the Great and Powerful – and current best friend of Starlight – Trixie!
I give you... the Unicorn Escape! [grunting] Just... a sec... One more... [grunts] twist... and... [grunts] [straining] The Great and Powerful Trixie requires a little assistance.
I know this trick. There's a special link, but I could never hold the chain up long enough to find it.
Well, if I could do magic like that, I'd have a whole slew of new tricks at my disposal.
I always liked close-up magic because I knew I could do it if I just practiced enough.
Starlight, why didn't you tell me how much Sunburst and I had in common?
[sarcastic] Gee. I don't know.
I know Trixie's "magic" is, you know, fun. But the Mirror Pool is actual magic.
Whoa. This place is pure pony lore.
Yup. I mean, it's supposed to be all dangerous, and I guess I shouldn't have broken the seal to get in, but you wanted to see the sights of Ponyville, right?
So, Pinkie Pie just dove in and made copies of herself?
Mm-hmm. If we made copies of ourselves, we could get a year's worth of hanging out over in one day.
Uh, not that we would.
Do you hear that?
Oh. I hope it's not a leftover Pinkie Pie.
[deadpan] Not exactly.
Maud! How did you get in here?
[deadpan] This cavern's actually connected to mine.
Uh, what are you doing?
[deadpan] Tapping.
Maud isn't super chatty. I mean, you and I could sit around and talk all day, but she looks pretty busy.
Are you taking some kind of core sample?
[deadpan] Not exactly. I'm uncovering this section of strata for closer study. You might want to step back.
[deadpan] I'm studying this area's metamorphic—
—foliation. Is this gneiss, phyllite, or slate? Wow. The pressure above must be pretty uniform to get the planar fabric to be this consistent.
[deadpan] You know about geology?
Eh, I dabble. For example, by the speleothems in this cave, I kind of figured there was another way out.
[deadpan] Because of the calcite deposits.
Starlight? Where's Sunburst?
[mumbles "I don't know"] Doing stage magic with Trixie? Studying new rocks with Maud? You're here, so I guess you two aren't off translating some ancient Olde Ponish text.
What are you talking about? Why would Sunburst be doing any of that? I thought he came to Ponyville to see you.
I thought so, too, but it hasn't worked out that way. When we were foals, we had more in common than any two ponies in Equestria. But now, it seems like he's got more in common with my friends than he does with me.
Oh. Everypony changes, but that doesn't mean there aren't still things you both like. You both love magic, right?
Magic?
Sure. You're really good at it, and Sunburst practically knows every spell that ever was.
[gasps] You're right! Thanks, Twilight! You're the best!
Heh. I try.
Starlight, what happened? Maud and I found some fascinating sedimentary stratum, but when I turned to show you, you were gone.
Maud does have a way of making rocks really interesting, but I wanted to work on something a little more "us".
What's this?
Just a little something I made up.
Whoa! You made up this spell? Just now?
Yup!
Wow.
I know, right? But wait, there's more!
Cool, right?!
Um... sure.
Now we can play Dragon Pit! Just like we used to!
Actually, I thought we could go with Maud and—
I mean, nothing was better than just you and me playing this game when we were foals, right?
Starlight.
Do you what to be red or blue?
Starlight! I don't want to play the game at all!
What's going on in here?
Nothing. I was trying to have fun doing the one thing I thought we still had in common, but I guess we don't even have that anymore.
I don't understand. Starlight and I have known each other since we were foals, but that doesn't mean we have to be foals to hang out.
Uh, Starlight does have a tendency to overdo.
I mean, it is surprising how well I get along with all of her friends, but she and I still have tons in common.
Maybe you just need to remind her what those things are.
That's it! That's exactly what I'll do! Uh, right after I think of them.
Uh-oh.
Obviously you and I hit it off. I am quite impressive. And we share a love for prestidigitation.
Right. And Starlight and I share a lot of things, too. I just need to think of them. What else do you guys have in common?
Well, we've both made not-so-great choices in the past.
And we're self-conscious about everypony judging us, even though we've both changed and are trying hard to be better.
Yeah, we don't really have that.
Hmph! I can think of something you have in common. You're both poor practice audiences.
[deadpan] Starlight and I don't really have a lot in common. Other than feeling different from most ponies. And comedy.
Comedy?
[deadpan] I'm very funny.
Was that a joke?
[deadpan] No.
Oh. Well, that's more than I can think of that she and I have in common.
[deadpan] We don't really spend that much time talking about that, though. Mostly we're just comfortable around each other.
[sighs] We used to be. We did everything together. But now I'm wondering if we've spent so much time apart that we don't connect over anything anymore. And if we can't connect over anything, then maybe we're not even friends!
[deadpan] Well, at least it's not serious. That was a joke.
[sighs] I appreciate you trying to help, Twilight. But it seems pretty clear that Sunburst and I have grown apart.
I understand. But I feel like that only happens if you both let it. You still want to be friends, right?
I created a spell so we could relive playing a game in our childhood home... and bodies.
Right...
I'm just not sure Sunburst wants to stay friends, too.
I think you might be surprised.
[deadpan] Prepare yourself...
...for the new and improved Dragon Pit!
We had to take out a few spaces to get it to fit, but you hardly miss them. Maud made the dice.
[deadpan] Pumice is the lightest igneous rock. It seemed the best choice.
And I added the special effects. There's nothing like a little well-placed magic smoke.
Looks like somepony's dragon is going to get trapped.
I thought you didn't want to play this game.
Well, I didn't want to pretend to be a foal, but I know you wanted to play. I thought it'd be fun to play a version big enough for full-grown ponies. What do you think? Fun, right?
Actually, it's missing something.
[giggles] Now it's fun.
I don't know why I got so worried about us not having anything in common.
Yeah. I kind of think it doesn't matter as long as we enjoy each other's company.
And that game was certainly enjoyable.
What made it even better was getting to play it with all my friends.
See you soon?
You bet. I want to hear if you find anything interesting in that barrel.
Trust me, Starlight. You'll be the first to know.
[narrating] The best elements within us can spread light and virtue, and I know ponies who represent them all – strength, bravery, healing, beauty, hope, and sorcery. Myself and these Pillars of Equestria were gathered together by another to maintain and share the light of these powerful ideals. But we soon came to believe the pony who brought us together only wanted that power for himself. Cast out and alone, this power-mad pony turned to darkness to satisfy his thirst. Transformed into a Pony of Shadows, he returned for revenge – to extinguish the Pillars' light and rob the world of hope. To stop him, the Pillars and I must make a grave sacrifice. But we shall leave behind a seed in hopes that one day it will grow into a force to stand against the darkness for all time. We must now face the fiend with the only plan we have...
[reading] "...I only hope it will be enough." That's the last entry. And maybe Star Swirl's final words before he vanished.
I've always wondered what happened to Star Swirl. This is quite a discovery, Sunburst.
So it's genuine? You can verify that this journal really belonged to Star Swirl the Bearded?!
Indeed. From the looks of it, the last thing he wrote before facing the Pony of Shadows.
Uh... So, the Pony of Shadows was really real?
It appears so.
We never met the other Pillars, and we were too young to understand the danger they faced.
Hold on a second now. All those legendary ponies were real, too? And they went off with Star Swirl to face the Pony of Shadows, and then none of them were ever heard from again?
Uh, yeah. Weren't you listening?
But what happened to them all?
They must have defeated the villain, since Equestria is still full of light and hope.
But how? And where did they go?
My Olde Ponish is a bit rusty, but I wonder if the answers can be found somewhere within the pages of this book.
Well, I just happen to be an expert in Olde Ponish. I mean, I've practically memorized every ancient text about Star Swirl there is!
Seriously. All of them.
We have fond memories of our old teacher. If you could discover what happened to him, we would be most grateful.
Solving a thousands-year-old mystery could take forever! Think of the research! The re-reading! The re-re-reading!
You might find you need help.
Luckily, she's got a whole bushel o' helpers right here.
Totally! Uh... how long will all this research take, exactly?
Let's get this back to my library. I'm sure we'll figure out what happened in no time.
[yawns] Figure it out yet, Twilight?
[yelps] What did you figure out?
What is it?
Twilight, we've been studyin' and referencin' and cross-referencin' for three days straight now.
Ugh. I haven't spent this much time reading since the last Daring Do book came out.
Perhaps it is time to take a break. This mystery is over a thousand years old, after all. Another day or two won't make a difference.
Two days?! I don't want to waste two seconds! I'm close to an answer. I can feel it.
[reading] "Hearg sylfum se Ponhenge". What's that?
The Temple of Ponhenge?! You can read that?!
The hornwriting's pretty sloppy, but it's nowhere near as bad as mine. [reading] "Toward dol grimlic of Fola Firgenbeorg"?
"At the base of Foal Mountain"...
[reading] "User endemest scield".
[gasps] "Our last stand".
This is it. Ponhenge. I can't believe it.
I've never seen magical runes like these before! Have you?
Uh-uh.
I don't think anypony's seen any of this for a long time. [straining] Whoa!
It'd take a whole team of ponies to clear away all this brush.
Even then, I'm not sure we'd find out what happened here over a thousand years ago.
[sighs] You're right. I suppose it was a long shot.
Cheer up, Twilight. Finding a whole set of ancient ruins is pretty impressive. Maybe you could write a paper on it.
I guess I hoped we'd get here and the mystery would just magically be explained.
Uh... Twilight?
Star Swirl!? I... I've wanted to meet you my whole life! I can't believe you're here!
I don't think he is here. I don't think any of them are.
[laughing evilly] Drawing me here will only make me stronger. You will never defeat me!
We did not come here to defeat you.
What are you doing?!
We came... to contain you.
[to Twilight] Well, you did ask for a magical explanation.
Uh... what just happened?
It looked like Star Swirl cast a spell that banished the Pony of Shadows.
Of course! Powerful magic like that would leave an impression on this place. Bringing the book back here let us see what happened.
Which was what?
Star Swirl and the rest of the Pillars sacrificed themselves to save Equestria.
It's amazing to think one of the greatest mysteries of Equestria was solved with a musty old book from an antique shop.
But I wouldn't say the mystery's solved. Star Swirl's spell was one of the most powerful feats of magic in all of history. It'll take years of study before we fully understand it.
I think I understand Star Swirl's spell!
I know I've finished one of Star Swirl's spells before, but this one was on a whole different level! Was it an explosion of magical feedback? An evocation? A kind of incantation? It's Star Swirl, so the possibilities are endless! And once Starlight set me on the right track with his crazy hornwriting – [laughs, snorts] I mean, he was a genius, so I guess we can forgive a little messiness – I went through the journal again, and it's amazing!
Twilight, darling. We understand you're excited, but that's all we understand.
What exactly is so amazing?
Only how Star Swirl and the other Pillars sent the Pony of Shadows to limbo!
They did what now?
They used their magic to open a portal between worlds – to limbo – and pulled the Pony of Shadows inside.
Darling, your diorama!
I made more!
Star Swirl thought the only way to trap the Pony of Shadows in limbo was for the Pillars to take him there.
So they got stuck, too!
The Pony of Shadows must have been really awful for them to do that.
I suppose being trapped for all time with a super-duper bad guy in limbo might be okay if you were doing the limbo, but that's still pushing it.
The thing is, I think I can get them out.
Twilight, are you serious? You can save the most legendary ponies of all time?
I-I don't know. Opening portals between worlds didn't work out well for me. Are you sure it's safe?
First of all, you opened portals through time. And second of all, Star Swirl wrote the spell you used to do it. If he'd been here, he could have stopped it. Equestria would be safer with him in it. We have to save him.
But you'd be savin' all the Pillars, right? A-And they disappeared ages ago.
That's the thing about limbo. It isn't one place or another. It's in between, so time stands still. If we can pull them out, it'll be like they never left. I actually built another model to demonstrate—
What can we do to help?
If I'm right, we need to find items that are connected to the Pillars in some way.
You mean, like, stuff that belonged to them?
How would we know what to look for? Or where?
Luckily, Star Swirl took a lot of notes. [reading] "My compatriots are as varied as the realm itself and hail from every corner of our land, bringing with them artifacts and talismans of great power."
Um, Twilight? What are you doing?
I'm not doing anything!
Rockhoof's shovel!
Flash Magnus' shield!
Mistmane's flower!
Meadowbrook's mask!
And the blindfold Somnambula wore when she faced that nasty sphinx!
I guess we don't need to figure out who should get what.
Professor! It's a Mighty Helm headpiece! Maybe it belonged to Rockhoof himself!
Legends don't wear helmets. This belonged to a real pony.
Oh, I can guarantee Rockhoof was as real as you and me.
[chuckling] And I suppose that ravine was dug with his trusty shovel to save the village from an erupting volcano.
Probably.
I love old legends as much as anypony. But a pony strong enough to save a village from rushing lava with a shovel is... preposterous.
I can't believe you just did that. Y-You saved us!
I bet if you told somepony else the story, it might sound... [gasps] "preposterous".
I suppose some stories might be true...
And Rockhoof's appears to be one of them.
Ow!
"Lotus Petal": You keep those hooves to yourself, dearie! This place has been in my family for generations, and I'm not about to let some whippersnapper take the last good piece of it! Time was, ponies came from far and wide to see these gardens. But that flower's the only worthwhile thing left!
Perhaps it just seemed like your gardens were worthless. But a little pruning can work wonders. Of course you will have to look after more than just one flower now.
"Lotus Petal": You've given me back my family's legacy. The flower you wanted seems like a fair trade for that.
I can't believe Flash Magnus' shield ended up in the Dragon Lands.
Good thing you brought the official Equestrian friendship ambassador to the dragons to help you navigate our customs. Like our favorite sport – gorge surfing!
Wahoo! [whooping] Ollie!
Okay. That was awesome.
"Billy": Dragon Lord Ember commanded us to make peace with ponies, but it doesn't mean you can surf in our spot.
Whoa, fellas. As the official Equestrian friendship ambassador to the dragons, I have to say that's not very friendly.
Well, what do you know? The puny pony-dragon's sticking up for his pony pal.
Hey! That's an ancient pony artifact!
Hooves off my gorge board! I found it in the desert, and finders keepers.
It isn't yours.
Huh. It sure looks like mine. But I might consider racing you for it.
No problem.
Um... No. I mean [to Spike] you.
Awesome!
"Billy": On your marks... Get set... Surf!
Whoa! Whoa! Whoooooaaaaa! Aaah! [grunting] [painting] I won? I won! Woo-hoo! Give up the shield, Garble!
[grunts] Lord Ember only commanded us to be nice to ponies. She never said anything about pony-loving dragons.
Uh, s-since Dragon Lord Ember commanded you to make peace with ponies, you can't very well attack one of their friends, can you?
I guess we'll find out! [grunts] Aaah!
Ugh. Why is he always hiding behind ponies?
I wasn't hiding when I beat you down the ridge.
You fell.
Wow. You must be slow if all Spike had to do to win was fall down.
I'm faster than you.
Doubt it.
Fine! I'll race you back to the top. If you win, you can have your pony junk. But if I win, you'll leave and I get to give it to him!
Fine. I'm pretty sure I could beat you anyway. But with that heavy hunk of metal on your back, it'll be a snap.
Huh? Oh, yeah. Thanks for the tip.
See ya at the top, loser! Hey! That's mine!
Finders keepers, remember?
"Billy": See, because that's what you said to them when they first showed up—
Just remember not to turn away from them, Cattail. Flash bees can get pretty aggressive. I guess that's why none of the other bayou animals can get to the water.
Wouldn't it make more sense for you to wear the mask that calms the bees?
It would... if I didn't have to fly up here to move their hive. There!
Now the other bayou creatures can get to the water without the bees feeling threatened.
You know, you didn't have to help with this. I would've lent you the mask anyway.
I know. [giggles] But I couldn't leave without helping.
"Fahal Alkhayl": I don't think anypony can find anything in there.
I wouldn't give up hope just yet.
This old blindfold was stuck in the drain.
Weren't you looking for a blindfold?
Oh, yeah!
I can't believe I'm gonna meet Star Swirl the Bearded! You know, outside of my dreams.
I can't believe you're actually going through with it.
What do you mean?
I'm all for pushing the envelope, obviously, but this is pretty out there for you, Twilight.
What's "out there" about saving the most legendary ponies of all time from a thousands-year-old prison?
Well... nothing when you say it like that. Unless "the most legendary ponies of all time" knew what they were doing, and we shouldn't mess with it.
I'm sure Star Swirl and the Pillars did the best they could back then, but magic has come a long way. Mostly because of the work they did.
That's true. And you did get your wings from finishing one of Star Swirl's spells.
Exactly.
But then I messed with one and nearly destroyed the universe, so...
Starlight, Star Swirl the Bearded is the greatest wizard who ever lived. The chance to have him back in Equestria is worth the risk.
That's good news.
Otherwise, we'd have brought this shield for nothing.
I hope you don't think you're the only one to find her artifact, because this here shovel says otherwise.
[laughing] Honestly, you two. Not everything is a competition. But Mistmane's flower is by far the most attractive of the artifacts.
You're just saying that because you didn't have to scuba dive in a pit of green slime to get yours!
Or move a flash beehive.
Good work, everyone. Let's do this!
What... What has happened?
It worked! We brought you back!
To where?
You and the others have been trapped in limbo for over a thousand years, but I figured out how to get you ho—
What?! No, no, no, no! You must undo what you've done!
What? Why? I mean, I don't think I can.
You cannot bring us back!
But I did. I brought all the Pillars back.
You cannot bring only the Pillars back!
Oh, no!
That's the last entry. Star Swirl's final words before he vanished.
All those legendary ponies were real, too? And then none of them were ever heard from again?
They used their magic to open a portal to limbo.
We need to find items that are connected to the Pillars in some way.
We brought you back!
You cannot bring only the Pillars back!
[laughing evilly] Your pitiful attempt to imprison me has failed, Star Swirl!
You must return us to limbo. It's the only way to stop him.
I only figured out how to bring you back.
Working on it! No table of contents!
There! Without the power of Ponhenge, your banishing spell is useless!
You have studied my writings. Surely you have some other plan.
No. I just wanted to save you. I didn't think—
Don't fret. When I extinguish the light and hope of this miserable world, you won't remember any of this.
No!
Lucky for her, she's not alone!
[straining] Arrrrggghhhh!
Know this, fiend! We will not rest until we find a way to return you to limbo!
[growls] Never! Your days of glory are through, Star Swirl. Now my dark power will reign, and you six will bow to me!
Um... where'd he go?
That is a riddle we must unravel. And quickly.
How long have we been gone?
Over a thousand years.
Then my spell worked – before it was meddled with – and the realm has been at peace for a millennia!
Weeeeell... we did have to save everypony from Nightmare Moon and Discord and Chrysalis and King Sombra and Lord Tirek, and there was that one time when Starlight traveled through time and almost destroyed life as we know it! But that's all in the past.
If you are truly this accomplished, we will stop the Pony of Shadows twice as fast together.
We shall see. It is an easy thing to say you have saved the world. It is quite another to do it.
Oh, we've saved the world, Beardo. And we can do it again.
Be that as it may, the problem of locating the Pony of Shadows remains, and this land is vast.
It sounds like you need a map. Luckily, we have just the thing.
Something about this magic seems familiar...
Did you know he can do that?
He's Star Swirl! He can do anything!
This map, and indeed this very castle, are grown from the seed we planted over a thousand years ago.
Then it did work!
What worked?
Each of us infused a crystal seed with our magic in hopes that it would grow into a force for good.
We wanted to leave something to protect the realm in our absence, but we never dreamed our gift would become so powerful.
Y'all mean the Elements came from you?
You know, the sparkly crystal things that grow from the Tree of Harmony and represent each of us? Laughter, honesty, generosity, loyalty, kindness, and magic!
They are reflections of our own elements of hope, strength, beauty, bravery, healing, and sorcery.
We had no idea our small seed would bloom into the living spirit of the land. I am glad our mantles have passed to such capable ponies.
More importantly, we no longer need Ponhenge to send our foe back to limbo. We can use the stored magic in this Tree of Harmony.
But doesn't a banishing spell take a lot of power? We'd have to sacrifice the Elements for that.
Mm-hmm.
They'd be gone... forever?
Star Swirl, I don't think the Tree can survive without the Elements. If it dies, Equestria will suffer.
If the Pony of Shadows has his way, your land will not exist. So unless you have a better idea...
Our foe will seek dark places from which to draw power. I will prepare my spell so that we may strike as soon as you find him.
What are we waiting for?
I like your spirit!
What about this one?
Seapony etiquette isn't going to help right now, Spike.
Uh, Twilight? Are you okay?
I just unleashed ultimate evil and doomed Equestria because I was obsessed with meeting my idol! Why wouldn't I be okay?!
[scoffs] You didn't know that was gonna happen.
But I should have listened to you and left things alone. Now the Elements of Harmony will be lost to fix my mistake!
Maybe there's another way.
If there is, Twilight will find it.
Portal gate... Portal keys... Portal spells... Yes! If the Pillars can hold open the gateway to limbo, a powerful pony can do the banishing spell herself! Do you know what this means?
[panting] I can stop carrying books?
The Pillars don't have to leave Equestria! Even though we'll lose the Elements, we'll have the ponies that created them. And the Pony of Shadows will be banished for good!
That's great. Heh. But I was thinking of another way that maybe doesn't involve banishing at all?
Star Swirl knew what he was doing when he cast that spell. If I can make it even better, maybe he'll see that I take magic as seriously as he does.
It seems the dark places Star Swirl indicated on the map have changed.
I bet the Pony of Shadows would've loved the Ghastly Caverns before a thousand years of erosion turned it into the Ghastly Gorge.
The Appeloosian Wastes sure sounded dark and desolate.
Who knew they would become such a popular square dancing destination?
And I get how this part of Equestria used to be cast in eternal night where the Pony of Shadows could draw power and wreak havoc while ponies were powerless to stop him. But...
[echoing] ...it's kinda made a comeback! Did I mention it's really bright?!
It seems there are fewer dark corners in the realm these days.
Isn't that a good thing?
True. The Pony of Shadows will have a hard time regaining power. When he rears his head, we'll be ready!
Isn't there some way to banish him without losing all of you?
Oh, I wish there were. But to save our home, we are willin' to leave it.
I don't think you'll have to! My spell isn't finished yet, but I think we can send the Pony of Shadows to limbo without all of you having to go as well!
While I appreciate your enthusiasm, Twilight, this is hardly the time to take risks on half-baked spells.
Beggin' your pardon, Mr. the Bearded! But Twilight doesn't do anythin' halfway!
Especially not magic!
Seriously! She got her wings by finishing one of your spells!
I think you'll find her work is worth reading before you dismiss it out of hoof!
Mm-hmm!
While it is an unconventional approach, I believe it could work.
Hmm. I suppose there is a chance.
But we still have no idea where to find the villain.
Maybe we should try there?
The Hollow Shades. I think a branch of the Apple family lives there.
They'd have to be pretty distant. The Hollow Shades was abandoned eons ago.
Hmm, that's odd. The only time the map's called all of us to one place was Starlight's village.
So it's like a super-villain tracker! No offense.
Do you think the map could be trying to tell us where the Pony of Shadows is?
Hmm... The Tree of Harmony acting to protect the light of the realm... Yes. A good thought, Twilight.
I will make my notes on this spell. Ready yourselves for battle.
Uh, I know I'm not as experienced as all of you, but is banishment really the only option? I mean, it's been a long time. Maybe the Pony of Shadows is ready to talk?
I doubt we can save our homeland with a conversation.
But we could try.
Starlight, I'm sure Star Swirl and the others did try.
The Pony of Shadows was not interested in reconciliation. Once a villain, always a villain. Twilight, Sunburst, would you accompany me? I wish to refine this spell for our use.
Come. We must prepare for the struggle ahead.
[sighs] I know Star Swirl is a great wizard, but this whole plan seems... wrong. The map's only ever sent us to solve friendship problems.
Maybe so, but the Pony of Shadows doesn't really seem like the "friendship" type.
Honestly? We don't know anything about him.
Well, nopony does.
That's not entirely true.
You all knew the Pony of Shadows before he became what he is now. You must've been friends. So what happened?
The tale of our rift is a sad one.
[narrating] Stygian was a pony like the rest of us, though more scholar than hero. He recognized our emerging world would need champions to defend it.
[narrating] He may have gathered us together, but he himself was just an ordinary unicorn who soon grew jealous of our abilities.
[narrating] He stole objects from each of us. Artifacts to use in a spell.
[narrating] And we cast him out for it.
[narrating] We always thought he'd return and seek forgiveness. But when we saw him again, his heart was bent on revenge. He dashed even my hope of saving him.
But why did he steal the artifacts from you?
No doubt it was an enchantment to take our powers for himself.
Hmm...
That looks like a lot of work.
It is what must be done, and it would be best if we were not disturbed.
I'm sorry, Starlight, but we can't stop to talk. The stakes are too high, and we have to—
Banish Stygian to limbo. I get it.
Uh, who?
Stygian was the name the Pony of Shadows gave up when he turned to darkness.
And I'm just trying to figure out why.
Envy. He wanted more power than he had, and that desire led him down a path from which there is no return!
I know from experience that's not always true. When the map called you six to my village, it was for a friendship problem. Are you sure this is different?
I...
Stygian wants to destroy all that is good in this world. There's no way to befriend a pony like that.
I guess I'm lucky your idol wasn't around when you decided to be my friend. I might've been banished to limbo, too.
I am glad we have the chance to see what has grown from our efforts so long ago.
It seems a shame to harm it.
A necessary sacrifice. With the Elements' power, we will bind the Pony of Shadows in limbo. And thanks to Twilight, we will remain to watch over the realm ourselves.
Um... how do we use them?
Well, you... Oh. I'm not sure. They simply work for us.
The Elements are attuned to you. We must use their magic in pairs.
No problem. We're used to banishing evil before breakfast.
And it'll be an honor to save Equestria with y'all.
I really hope Twilight knows what she's doing...
I don't remember reading anything that said the Hollow Shades was like this.
Ohhh. The Pony of Shadows must have twisted it to his purposes.
Prepare yourselves. He is here. Stygian! Show yourself and face us!
[groans] I definitely would've remembered reading about this.
[laughing maniacally] Welcome to the Well of Shade! When you turned your backs on me, I discovered this place. The darkness spoke to me of a power beyond any I could imagine, and I listened. The shadow and I became one. Soon, all of the realm will be the same. Then all ponies will feel the despair I did when you cast me out!
We did what we had to do. You tried to steal our powers for yourself.
No! It was you who were selfish! And now you will pay!
Are you still sure this isn't a friendship problem?
Ready? Open the portal...
...Now!
No! You will not trap me again!
Twilight! Push him in!
Huh? There's... a pony in there.
Are you... Stygian?
I was, once. Until my friends betrayed me.
But Star Swirl says you betrayed them. You wanted their magic...
No! I wanted their respect. I brought them together. I planned strategy, and I read all I could about the beasts we faced. But I didn't have magic or strength, so nopony ever noticed me. I went to Ponhenge to make my own copies of the artifacts. With them, I thought I could be a Pillar, too, and stand by their side in battle. I never wanted to steal their power. But instead of sharing and letting me help, my friends threw me out. [voice deepening and growling] So I became stronger than any of them! The darkness welcomed me when no pony would, and I will do what I must to protect it!
This is all a misunderstanding! If the Pillars knew how you felt, I'm sure they wouldn't have turned their backs on you. The shadow isn't who you really are. Let me help you be Stygian again.
Even if my friends did still care, what makes you think you have the power to help me?
Because it's what she does. I wasn't so different from you, and Twilight helped me change. If there's one pony in Equestria that can save a friendship, it's her.
I... I want to believe you... [growls] But the darkness will not be stopped!
Fight the darkness, Stygian! You don't need it anymore! Revenge isn't what you want! Friendship is!
Twilight!
Ugh! The shadow won't let go of him. He wants to stop, but he can't do it alone.
Then we must help him!
Yeah! Oh, it felt sooooo good to do that again!
Friendship power rush! Whoo!
The Elements! They didn't disappear!
Maybe because we used them for healing magic instead of banishing?
Look!
Long ago, you needed our help, Stygian. But instead of listening, we turned our backs on you. Pride clouded my judgment. I owe you an apology. Thank you for helping us see the errors of our ways, Twilight. It seems I never accounted for the Magic of Friendship.
Thank you, Swirlstar! Uh, Star Swirl!
[clears throat] Soooo... apparently a conversation can save Equestria?
[chuckles] Something tells me I will be making a lot of apologies today.
I simply cannot believe how tall you've gotten!
Well, it has been over a thousand years. Will you stay here and teach magic once again? My sister and I have such fond memories of your lessons.
As long as you don't ask for those essays we owed you before you disappeared.
[chuckles] I'm not certain Canterlot is where I belong. The realm has grown, and I believe I'll have a look around before I settle in any one place.
And I long to see what has become of my home.
I believe we all do.
Then I hope you will return to Canterlot on occasion and share the wisdom of your great experience with the next generation of ponies.
We would be honored. But if it is wisdom you seek, look no further than your own pupil. She showed me that the power of friendship is a magical force indeed. And that in turning away from others, you hurt yourself as well.
It's funny. I thought meeting my idol would give me all the answers I ever wanted. But instead, I forgot what I already knew. Good thing I had a student of my own to remind me.
This happened while we were gone?
Wow! Those are all the places we went when we left to save Equestria!
Ugh! There's that horrid town where we were almost sold!
The pirates! They were pretty awesome! Uh, once they decided not to throw us overboard.
And Mount Aris! Ooh, Starlight! Did you know we made seashell necklaces for aaaaaa... [inhales] ...aaaaall the seaponies?
I... You... Really? What about that unicorn? The one who attacked Canterlot?
Tempest! I invited her to come to Ponyville, but she wanted to spread the word of the Storm King's defeat and share what she learned about friendship.
Y'all think that's why the map grew? Friendship quests beyond Equestria?
I hope not. I've had quite enough life-threatening adventures, thank you very much.
How many friendship quests do you think we need to go on before we have to expand the throne room?
We can't do it all alone.
Sure we can! We just need to knock this wall down, get some paint...
No. I mean, the world is filled with so many different creatures who know nothing about friendship. We need help if we're gonna teach them all about friendship. Lots of help.
Perhaps. But where does one go to learn about friendship?
Here! They can all go here! Because we're gonna open a school!
I think a school of friendship is a wonderful idea, Twilight! I'll help in any way I can.
I just have a few questions. What time should school start each day?
It really d—
What's the ideal length for class? Do you test regularly?
Oh, well, that's—
What about class projects?
That's a very—
Assigned seating? Open seating? Or is that... too unstructured?
[giggles] Oh, Twilight. You were my star pupil. If anyone knows how to run a school, it's you.
There's a big difference between attending a school and running one. It's not like there's a rule book to follow.
Actually, there is. The EEA guidebook is very specific about how to run a school.
The EEA? I've never heard of that. Should I have heard of that?!
Of course not. You've never run a school before. The Equestria Education Association is a board of learned ponies that oversee every school in Equestria.
Even your school? But you're you!
Not even a princess can do whatever she likes when it comes to shaping young pony minds. The EEA ensures that whether it's unicorns studying magic, Pegasi learning weather, or Earth ponies researching agriculture, all schools are held to the same high standard. They'll need to approve your plan before you can move forward.
Okay, Spike, looks like we have a presentation to make.
[scoffs] After everything we've been through, how hard can that be?
I'm gonna go with "really hard".
Uh, hello. My name is—
Princess Twilight Sparkle. I am Chancellor Neighsay. Equestria owes you a great debt. But princess or no, we expect you to do things by... the... book!
I think you'll find my curriculum meets all your requirements, Chancellor.
And can we trust you to follow through with this plan? Will you leave the school unattended to gallop off on your... "adventures"?
My journey beyond Equestria showed me firsthoof that the threats out there are greater than we imagined!
If we want to keep our land safe and create a friendlier tomorrow, we need to teach the Magic of Friendship far and wide.
A school for ponies to learn how to protect themselves.
Uh, more like respecting differences and communicating.
The EEA concurs. Every pony should be prepared to defend our way of life. So, if your work is in order, provisional EEA approval is granted. We will need to observe your school up and running before it can be fully accredited.
Then please, join us for Friends and Family Day. It'll be the perfect time to see our progress!
It's too much. Too much!
Ugh, you think so? I had hoped dressing the part would help me feel the part.
Not your dress! This! Us! Teaching?! They're gonna think I'm an egghead!
Well, the students are gonna love my confetti cannon class. It's gonna be... a blast!
Um, hello there. I'm your teacher. I hope you enjoy class. But if you don't enjoy it, that's okay, too.
I don't know about all this.
It's going to be fine. Everything about this school just feels right.
See? If Twilight isn't stressed, you've got nothing to worry about.
And you're sure you want us to be teachers? In classrooms?
The EEA is very clear on how schools should be run. We have a huge responsibility, and I need you all to do this by the book. That means no cannons in class, Pinkie.
Awww. Not even a [high-pitched] teeny cannon?
I know it's not some big adventure against the forces of evil, but this could be the most important thing we've ever done. I can't run a school of friendship without my best friends. Can I count on you?
Of course you can, darling.
Call me Professor Egghead. I'm in!
[screams] First day at school! So many new ponies!
About that. One thing I forgot to mention. It's not just ponies.
That was unexpected.
Ooh! Students certainly traveled from far and wide to attend our school!
Princess Celestia helped me reach out to all the kingdoms. After all, friendship is something that needs to be shared with every... creature.
Welcome to the School of Friendship! I'm your headmare Twilight Sparkle. Please follow Guidance Counselor Starlight to sign in and get your class assignments. Then we can show you your living quarters.
Whoa, sorry! I'm Sandbar. Are you a student here, too?
Grandpa Gruff? What are you doing here?
Flew all the way from Griffonstone to introduce Gallus.
Rainbow Dash, right? Gilda told me about you. You're a teacher? Huh. Thought you'd be... cooler.
Ponies!
Prince Rutherford!
This Yona Yak. She come to pony school. Hah. Make it better.
Yak can't wait to meet ponies and tell all about Yakyakistan!
Why don't I show you around before you destroy the place?
But dragons are better than this! Why am I here?
Because as Dragon Lord, I'm ordering you to be here! Hey, Spike! Come meet Smolder.
Great to see you, Ember! Uh, which one is Smolder?
Ocellus! What did we talk about?
I told you, stay in your own form. It's the polite thing to do. Sorry, she's shy.
What is that?! No way! I didn't know ponies could turn into... um... What are you?
A changeling.
Ponies can turn into changelings?!
No, but changelings can turn into ponies.
Huh. That's confusing!
I am General Seaspray of Her Majesty Queen Novo's navy. I would like to introduce the queen's niece, Silverstream.
This place is amazing! I've spent most of my life in a coral reef underwater. I was a seapony, but now I'm a Hippogriff. Long story. Anyway, wow! Is that a yak?!
Thank you so much for supporting the grand opening of our school. I hope you'll all join us for Friends and Family Day to see the amazing progress your students are making.
Looks like school's in session!
The School of Friendship, first day of class Will we fail or will we pass? Students come from far and wide Brand-new friends here by our side
Take a breath, look around, it's amazing I can't believe that it's real Students galore, new ideas to explore Can't contain the excitement I feel
Can't mess up, can't afford a mistake now Think "success", keep it firmly in sight Make sure to do things by the book Make sure to do it all right
The School of Friendship, must get to class Will we fail or will we pass? Students learning from the best Taking notes to pass the test
Wait, hold on! Not like that! Just a second! I'm not sure if that method's approved Let me take a look – yup, right here in the book
Come on! We just got in the groove!
Can't mess up, can't afford a mistake now We are shaping young minds to ignite Do it like it says in the book Now make sure you're doing it right
There's not an equation on how to have fun
The students look bored now – oh, what have I done?
Can't teach bein' honest, not sure what to do
I'm quite certain I'm lost
None of us has a clue!
School of Friendship, another class Wish it were more of a blast Thought this school would be more fun Can't wait for our classes to be done
No way to have fun
Oh, what have I done?
Listen to this one request Make things fun, we're really stressed
Make sure to do things by the book now
Can we tell her this thing is a mess?
Is this what boring is? Am I bored?
Ugh, please. These ponies are the heroes of Equestria?
Listen, these ponies saved all of us from the Storm King.
How? By boring him into surrender?
Our teachers are a little different than I expected.
Ugh! Pony school waste of time! Yak school teach how to braid yak hair! Braiding yak hair is best! Whoa!
Oof! Is there anything in Yakyakistan that isn't the best?
Yes! Wait. No! Yaks best.
No claws, no wings, no fire. What is it exactly you're proud of?
Whoa, cool it. No need to harsh Yona's love for her heritage, okay?
Awww, are we not being sweet and friendly enough for you, pony?
That was sarcasm, right? Because you weren't being sweet or nice!
Maybe dragons and griffons are just too tough for friendship.
Yaks tough, just not nasty.
Who you calling nasty, klutz?
Okay, break it up! Break... it... up!
What is going on here?!
Just a friendly discussion about the magic of friendship amongst friends.
Everypony— I mean, everyone, go to your next class! I just can't believe it. Fights breakin' out when they're supposed to be learnin' friendship?
Things definitely aren't going as "by the book" as Twilight planned.
That's because we're terrible teachers! Face it. This school isn't gonna work.
[fading in] ...fights breakin' out in the hallway...
...putting myself to sleep!
I don't look like that, do I?
I get it. Things are getting off to a rougher start than expected. But that's okay!
Who are you, and what have you done with Twilight Sparkle?
Every school in Equestria follows these rules. As long as we do too, we'll be fine.
Maybe we should... try something new?
The EEA will be here this afternoon for Friends and Family Day. They need to see a school that follows their guidelines.
Even if those guidelines aren't working?
Well, then we have to try harder and make sure they do.
Another morning, another chance to inspire our students!
Hey! Professor Dash's class is this way.
Where are you going? You're not [gasps] skipping, are you?
That's exactly what we're doing.
But Friends and Family Day—
Is after class. Relax. This is just a quick... mental health break.
That sounds legit! We're in!
I guess I'll tag along, too. Make sure you don't get into... trouble.
This way, Angel!
Professor Fluttershy! We're busted!
Oh, my! What are you all doing? Aren't classes that way?
Ah— [clears throat] A generosity field trip, daaaaarling. [giggles] I'm taking the students to the lake to look at our divine reflections.
Oh, that sounds nice. Have fun!
I take back everything I said about you! That was cool!
Thanks! Wait, what did you say about me?
You're sure sticking to the book is gonna work?
My friends can handle anything. They'll have these problems turned around before we know it.
Problems?
Chancellor Neighsay! You're here!
Yes. And you seem unprepared. If there are problems...
Problems? Ha! Of course not! We can't wait to show you around!
And that's why griffons breathe fire when we get mad.
They do not! Wait! Do they? No! Really?!
Griffons just full of hot air!
And yaks are actually good at jokes. How about that?
What are dragons good at?
Competition! Who's up for a race?
Rainbow Dash! Why aren't you in class teaching?
Because my students are gone! Uh, g-gone somewhere else! Doing a loyalty lesson! And-and I was just going to grab, uh... this pencil! Because they need it. Wherever they are. Which I know, 'cause... I'm the teacher!
I see. [laughs nervously] Well, Chancellor, we have other classes. We can just—
Let's follow the professor. I'm quite curious about this lesson in loyalty.
[voiceover] Of course, we want to instill a sense of loyalty towards others. We encourage acts of generosity and kindness.
Figured we shouldn't be the only ones enjoying the view.
Waaaah! Yak not best at flying!
[voiceover] And appreciation for the value of laughter...
Flying is best!
Congratulations, Yona! You are officially the weirdest thing I've seen so far!
What do you say, Ocellus? Can you be weirder than a flying yak?
...and to always be honest in any situation.
Honesty is imperative. Princess, are we going in circles?
Uh, look at the time! We'd better head to the lake for Friends and Family Day. I'm sure all the students and faculty will be there.
What is that?!
Aah! The school is under attack!
Oh, my goodness!
Uh, maybe skipping class wasn't the best idea?
How dare you! This act of aggression against ponies—!
I-I'm so sorry, Chancellor. We clearly had some students get a little carried away.
Those are students? But you said you were opening this school to protect Equestria! To defend ponies from... dangerous creatures who don't have our best interests at heart!
My school teaches for all of us to work together through friendship.
And how do you know these creatures won't take what they have learned here and use it against us?
Friendship isn't just for ponies!
It should be.
Unicorn think yaks no need friendship? Maybe yaks no need pony school!
Well, perhaps you should return to your kind.
"Your kind"?! Smolder, let's go!
Queen Novo will want to hear of this!
Well, this place seemed lame anyways.
[despondently] It's fine. We know not every pony sees us the way you do. We're used to it.
Princess Celestia helped me reach out to all the kingdoms! When she hears you closed the school because—!
Because you failed to meet the EEA's standards?
What?!
Irresponsible teachers, students skipping class, endangering ponies! Your school is a disaster. Perhaps if you had had higher standards for who was admitted, this could have been avoided. Regardless...
By order of the EEA, I am shutting this school... [stomps] down!
This happened while we were gone?
Friendship quests beyond Equestria?
We're gonna open a school!
We expect you to do things by... the... book!
We have a huge responsibility, and I need you all to do this by the book.
These ponies are the heroes of Equestria?
This is just a quick... mental health break.
The school is under attack!
Those are students?
I am shutting this school... [stomps] down!
Twilight? You feeling okay?
[sighs] Look on the bright side. Sure, the EEA closed your friendship school. But now you've got time to do other stuff! It's like being on vacation!
Whoa!
Okay, then. I'm gonna need backup. Operation Cheer-Up is a go!
Come on, Twilight! You can't sit around in the boring dark all day!
Exactly! What you need is a double dose of Granny Smith's apple mash.
Whenever I'm sad, a hug from Angel Bunny always makes me feel better.
I find that nothing brightens my mood like a new ensemble!
[whispering, to Spike] You didn't tell me this was a pity party! I would've brought ice cream!
I appreciate you trying to make me feel better, but not everything can be fixed with dresses and cupcakes.
What?!
I just need some time to be alone and think.
Oh...
I wondered how long you'd take to get tired of pillow-fort pouting.
Everypony's already tried to cheer me up. It won't work.
[short laugh] I'm not gonna cheer you up. I'm gonna tell you what you did wrong.
What?!
You gave up too easily.
Hey, you made me a guidance counselor. That means tough love.
Neighsay was right. I failed. The school was a disaster.
So was I when you met me. But you showed me that when you know in your heart something is right, you stand up for it. You did that for me. Why not for this?
I can't go against the EEA! They're in charge of all the schools in Equestria!
And you're in charge of all the friendship in Equestria. Why should you let somepony else stop you from doing your job?
But the EEA rulebook—
Doesn't matter! You can write your own rules! Because you are doing something new. Something important!
You're right! Why we're doing this is way more important than how we're doing this! And we are doing this!
Now, that's the Twilight I know. How can I help?
You already have.
Guess what? The School of Friendship is back in business!
What?!
But why?!
Oh, no.
Bad idea.
Do we still get to guess?
No offense, Twilight, but teaching at that school was the most boring, horrible, awful thing ever.
Uh, pretty sure she's gonna take offense to that.
No, Rainbow Dash is right. I owe you all an apology. I was so focused on doing things the EEA way, I didn't listen to any of you. I'm sorry. I promise, this time, we'll run the school the way friends should – together.
So... we'd be allowed to teach however we want to?
No more scary pop quizzes?
Confetti cannons for everycreature?
Whatever you need to teach the Elements of Harmony.
Yippeeeee!
Well, in that case, we're behind you one hundred percent, Twilight.
[clears throat] Just two small problems. The school is still unaccredited...
...and we don't have any students.
I'll take care of the first part if you five can round up our class.
Totally! Uh... how?
Roundin' up the pony students ain't gonna be an issue, but...
The creatures from the other kingdoms seemed pretty upset with us.
Pfft! Nonsense! I'm certain we can win them over with our charm and style!
[singsongy] Cupcake-gram for Prince Rutherfoooord!
Why pink pony here? Yaks mad at ponies!
Because... you don't have to be mad anymore! We're reopening Twilight Sparkle's School of Friendship! And it's gonna be super-uper-duper better than before! We're—
—ever so sorry about the misunderstanding. All creatures are, of course, welcome.
We would be really happy if you sent your student back to class.
It won't be the same without 'em. We're open and ready to start teachin'—
—right now! So, what are you waiting for? Get your student and let's go!
Not happenin'!
Listen, missy! It's not happenin' because—
Grampa Gruff, Ember, Prince Rutherford, Seaspray, [simultaneously] Our student is gone!
Applejack, Fluttershy, Pinkie Pie, Rainbow Dash, [simultaneously] What?!
Where Yona?! This all pony's fault!
You're pretty quick to blame them! What are you hiding, yak?!
C-Can... Can we just focus on finding our lost students?
Nice try! You grubs are probably hidin' the whole lot of 'em!
Please, everycreature! If you can just explain what happened...
The students left us notes before they disappeared. When the school closed, they didn't want to say goodbye to each other. They claim they ran away to stay together.
I can't believe it! They did learn friendship!
Sorry.
The students couldn't have done this by themselves. Some creature is hiding them! If the niece of our queen is not found soon, I promise there will be retribution!
Yeah? Well, my dragons will burn every kingdom until we find which of you is hiding Smolder!
Tell it to the griffon army!
Yaks fight griffons and dragons!
The Changeling Empire can't afford an international incident. If any creature blames the changelings for this—
What are you up to, shapeshifter?!
B-But we're friends!
Find the students quickly, Twilight, or I fear our world will be at war!
Okay. Let's review what we know.
Smolder, Ocellus, Silverstream, Yona, and Gallus disappeared together.
That's all we know.
They're probably just off hidin' somewhere.
Unless they used some kind of spell to disappear.
Ooh! Or went undercover!
Maybe they were attacked by a ferocious shrimp! Nopony ever expects that!
[gasps] Shrimps can attack?
Nope! That's why nopony expects it.
Whoa!
Hi, Sandbar! Are you having a party?
[incredibly nervously] No! I'm just, um... really hungry? Yeah?
We need to think like our students. If someone told us we would never see each other again, what would we do?
Go someplace we could all hang out and eat lots and lots of cupcakes!
What?
Sandbar was friends with all of the missing students... and he just got plenty of cupcakes.
Huh. He was at the farm this mornin' pickin' up a wagonload of apples...
And I saw him in a shop buying pillows and blankets!
[gasps] He must be taking all that stuff to the other students! We've gotta follow him!
[laughing] Huh. This place is way cooler than I thought it'd be.
[chewing] Even I'm impressed. What's it called again, Ocellus?
The Castle of the Two Sisters. I remembered it from class. Princess Twilight's "History of Pre-Equestrian Friendships".
Huh. Who knew? School was actually good for something.
Yona not really like school. But Yona like new friends!
[grunts] [strained] Smolder... like breathing!
Hey, you guys! Sandbar's back!
Cupcakes are best cakes!
Aah!
[sighs] Thanks for the assist, Gallus.
Pillows! How nice! The castle is gonna be so much more comfy.
And fun! Pillow fight!
You guys! I just found stairs!
Aaaand we care because...?
Stairs are awesome! We don't have anything like 'em underwater, 'cause you know, [magic zap] no way to climb 'em!
Ohhhh.
This place has everything! If only my family back home could see it...
I wish the other changelings could meet you all. You're not nearly as strange as the stories say.
Gee, thanks. But yeah, hanging out with other creatures is actually... not bad.
Uh, most other creatures. What is that thing?
[sighs] Am I the only one who didn't sleep through Professor Fluttershy's "Critters of Comfort and Conflict" class? It's a puckwudgie. Maybe I can make friends with it!
Oops.
Think, Ocellus! Did Professor Fluttershy say anything about how to beat puckwudgies in her lecture?!
Uh... I'm sorry, I can't remember!
I'm gonna go ahead and guess it's not pillows, apples—
...or cupcakes.
Wouldn't class have been about how to make friends with them?
Uh, guys? They're getting really close...
Yona not scared! Yona have friends!
Is that Professor Egghead?!
Aw, yeah!
Oh! Don't hurt them! Just ask them to leave nicely.
Not bad! [quickly] For pony.
Wow! They're amazing!
I had no idea our teachers were actually cool.
[chuckles] I've been trying to tell you!
Did you see that?! Rainbow Dash was like voooooom and then werrrrr, and the puckwudgies went flying! And then the birds came and—!
Yeah, we all just lived it. But you're right. That was pretty amazing. Even by dragon standards.
Is everycreature alright?
[panting] You're lucky we got here in time!
You know, this probably isn't the safest place for a campout.
Does that mean you're going to send us back to our homes?
Not exactly. We have another option in mind.
We're listening.
It's pretty clear you've already started learning friendship without your teachers. But we'd like to show you even more... if you'd come back to school?
Not much of a choice.
To be honest, we felt exactly the same way when Twilight told us she was reopening the school.
But this time, we guarantee it shall be different.
Oh, yeah! With class run my way, it'll be two hundred and twenty percent cooler.
And without the EEA—
—it'll be much friendlier.
Plus, all your nations won't go to war if you come back with us! Bonus!
Wait. What's happening?
Twilight! I was so relieved to get your letter!
As was Queen Novo. Oh, we're just glad you're alright, Silverstream!
[to Gallus] Don't expect a welcome party from me, sonny! It's time you got home!
I'm not leaving.
Whaaaat?!
None of us are. Sorry, Thorax.
Yak not understand. This pony joke?
No. We're going back to school.
How? You can't even get inside!
School is back in session!
Who dared remove my seal?
I did, Chancellor Neighsay! And I respectfully ask you to step aside, or classes will start late.
Classes won't start at all! The EEA has spoken, and none shall pass!
Yak pass if yak say! Hmph!
This is for the greater good. The school was disorganized, the teachers unqualified! And those dangerous and unpredictable "students" put ponies' lives in danger!
[growls] I'll show you unpredictable!
Hold on, please! I'm sure Princess Twilight Sparkle has a good explanation for all of this.
I do! It's true that my School of Friendship is EEA-unaccredited...
Look! She said it without doing the eye thing!
Then it is not a school!
It's not an EEA school. It's a friendship school with its own rules. I should know. I wrote the book!
These students reminded me that every friendship is special, so the way we teach it has to be just as unique. My school is going to do things differently.
Allowing all of these creatures to attend your school, changing the rules for them – it simply won't work!
I seem to recall something about Earth ponies, unicorns, and Pegasi doing something similar, don't you?
I promise you, Chancellor. My school will help protect Equestria.
Or destroy it!
Hmph. How is this school going to be any different from last time?
This brand new school of friendship Is home to everyone
We're learning how to trust
We're here to all have fun
With friendship ties that bind us
Tighter than the strongest bonds
We're hoof-in-hoof
In hand in hoof in wing or even claw
There's a griffon in the garden
Hippogriffs hang in the hall
And the door will be open To all creatures great and small
And a yak or two or three
Sing in perfect harmony
That might have been a changeling
But it kind of looks like me
This school of friendship is for all of us A place where we belong Where we all learn to share and trust The only rule here is to find your way And friendship always wins at the end of the day
Some things you just can't teach with books Some things you only know So trust your heart and let us lead And your friendship's sure to grow
And once we master kindness We will spread it 'cross this land
And give the gift that's ours to share So others understand
This school of friendship is for all of us A place where we belong Where we all learn to share and trust The only rule here is to find your way And friendship always wins at the end of the day!
Ugh, fine! If you promise to stop singing, Smolder can stay!
Wahoo!
Uh, if dragon stay, yak stay.
I know you will make the changelings proud, Ocellus.
You belong here. Now, can you show me those stair things you mentioned?
[to Gallus] What? You belong at home! You think I care if you've made friends?
Alright, alright! Stop doing that!
Guess I make a pretty good guidance counselor, huh?
Yes! Writing the rulebook was the most fun ever! I can't wait to start working on the new lesson plans!
...with some help from my friends.
Puh-leeeez put your hooves together for your next performer, Maud Pie!
[taps on microphone] [deadpan] What do you call an Alicorn with no wings and no horn?
Earth pony.
[deadpan] But seriously, being an Earth pony isn't so bad. We've got magic powers, too. Like walking around and picking stuff up with our teeth.
[deadpan] That's sarcasm, by the way.
[laughs] It's funny, 'cause it's true!
[deadpan] My favorite thing to listen to is clastic rock – the accumulation of sediments over millennia forming to create sandstone, shale, and breccia. It sounds something like this.
[deadpan] And that's my time.
[laughs] Isn't my sister Maud the most hilarious, entertaining, amazing comedian ever?
Your jokes, your hilarious delivery, your... your everything!
[deadpan] How was my... timing?
[laughing] You got me! C'mon, let's celebrate sister-style. We can get matching stickers that says "Eyes on the Pies", then show them off at the Ponyville Sticker Convention that I could plan for tomorrow if you want.
[deadpan] Actually, I'm busy tonight.
Aww, that's what you said yesterday. And the day before that. And the day before the day before that. [sighs] It's just, we haven't hung out in a really long time because you always have other plans. Even when you promised to build whipped-cream pyramids with me.
[deadpan] I know. I am sorry, Pinkie. The reason is I have a—
Apology accepted, as long as we get some serious sister time before your birthday. And there's, uh, definitely no reason I wanna hang out before your birthday. Just, you know, not planning anything special.
[deadpan] Okay.
What about tomorrow morning?
[deadpan] Okay.
Yay! Just you and me. Best sister friends forever!
[deadpan] Best sister friends forever.
[continues squealing] Tomorrow is today! Who's ready for some fun times at Sugarcube Corner? The answer is "you"! I would also accept "Maud". Maud? Maud!
[gasps] Oh, I get it! We're playing hide-and-go-seek!
Aha! Found you!
Where's Maud? I've already tried Discord's dimension, Granny Smith's wax museum, and Yakyakistan! She has to be here!
Nope, it's just me. Reading.
Story checks out. Or does it?! It does. But are you sure there's nopony hiding... in your closet?!
Pinkie, I don't have a closet. Is everything okay?
No. I was supposed to go birthday cake shopping with Maud today.
And ruin her surprise party?
I wasn't gonna tell her why, silly. But now I can't even find Maud. I'm usually way better at hide-and-seek than this.
Oh, she probably just found a new rock formation and forgot you two were gonna hang out. Tell ya what. You take care of the cake, and I'll look for Maud.
Really? Thanks, Starlight!
Just checking.
[whispering] I've gotta get very important ingredients for a very important pony's cake. And it's gotta be tippy-top super-duper secret.
Technically, it's not your turn yet.
Oh. I'm sorry. Didn't mean to cut in front of anypony.
Um, whatcha doin'?
I am currently speaking to a pony at a baking supply shop two minutes before it closes for lunch.
Rrrrrright. Okay. Just that I'm trying to plan a party here, and the clock is ticking, while you, uh... What are you doing anyway?
I am currently speaking to a—
I mean, can I help you move this along? What are you looking for? Rolling pins, cupcake tins, cookie cutters with tails and fins?
[to S06E12 Unnamed Unicorn Mare #3] Goodbye.
That's what you've been standing here all this time to say?
I was deciding between "goodbye" and "see you later".
Uh... but, they're the same thing.
Technically, they're very different. "See you later" implies an event in the near future wherein we see each other. "Goodbye" expresses good wishes where parting or at the end of a conversation.
Yyyyyeah, same thing.
I will not apologize for speaking with precision.
In that case, apology not accepted. Goodbye, later, see ya—same thing!
Ugh! Can you believe that guy?! Huh? "Out to Lunch"?! Oh, come on!
[groans] No Maud, no cake, no anything! And how annoying was that pony? Who takes so long to say goodbye? Or was it "see ya later"? Ugh! Now he's got me doing it!
[deadpan] Hello, Pinkie Pie.
Maud! Found you! My turn to hide! Hee-hee!
[deadpan] I'm sorry I wasn't around this morning.
Oh, pssh. What are you apologizing to me for? I'm not upset, you silly-willy.
[deadpan] The reason is I met somepony—
Wanna hang out right now? I mean, I can see you're not doing anything with anypony else. Unless they're invisible or reeeeeaaaally small.
[deadpan] Pinkie, the reason I've been so busy is that I have a boyfriend now.
A wha...?
[deadpan] A boyfriend.
A whaaa...?!
[deadpan] A boyfriend.
A whaaaaa...?!
[deadpan] A boyfriend.
That's so exciting! My sister, in love!
[deadpan] Technically, we're in "like".
Tell me everything! Who is he? What's his favorite color? Does he like ice cream? If he were a bird, what kind of bird would he be? Wait. Is he actually a bird? Oh! I don't know, because you haven't told me anything yet!
[deadpan] You'll like him. We have a lot in common.
Well, I love you, so I know I'm gonna love your boyfriend! Oh, I can't wait to meet him!
[deadpan] You don't have to.
[gasps] He's a rock! And you love rocks, so it's perfect! [gasps] Is Boulder jealous?
[deadpan] No. Behind the rock. Mudbriar, are you back there?
Technically, not anymore.
[gasps] A wha-whaaaaaaaaa?!
[deadpan] Pinkie Pie, meet Mudbriar.
Technically, we've already met.
You?!
M'yes.
You?
M'yes.
You...
M'yes.
I mean, [laughs] you! You, you, you!
M'yes. M'yes. M'yes.
I'm sorry. Let's start over. Hi, I'm Maud's sister, Pinkie Pie.
I know.
Sooooo... how did... you two meet?
[deadpan] At a rock show.
Oh! You're into rocks, too?
No. I like sticks.
Then why were you at a rock show?
It was a petrified wood show, which technically makes it a stick show.
[deadpanly happy] Except that in the per-mineralization process of petrification, all organic material is replaced with silicates – i.e., rocks.
While retaining the original structural elements of wood – q.e.d., it was a stick show.
I'm... really into sticks, too! They're great for hitting piñatas! Haaaaa...
[deadpan] Pinkie...
Oh! You wanna go first?
That is stick abuse.
It is? I'm sorry. Oh, this is awful. I'm not being a very good sister. Let's start over. I'm Pinkie Pie! Nice to meet you!
Technically, we've already met.
[deadpan] You should introduce Pinkie to your pet.
Oh! Your pet likes fetch!
This is my pet. So no.
[deadpanly happy] Aw. Look at Twiggy and Boulder playing together.
They're adorable.
[whispering, to Maud] It's just a stick.
[deadpan] Don't be rude.
[sighs] I'm sorry, I'm sorry. One more time. [through gritted teeth] I'm Pinkie Pie! Nice to meet you!
Technically, we've already met.
[straining] Daaah! I don't get this guy!
Wow. Maud has a boyfriend?
[groans] How could she like someone so weird? He has an inanimate object for a pet!
So does Maud.
Boulder has ten times the personality of some random stick! Mudbriar, too, for that matter. He's not like Maud at all! Maud is hilarious, friendly, caring, and easy to talk to!
Yep, that's Maud.
But this guy is awkward, quiet, and kind of... strange.
Uh, that also sounds like Maud.
[laughs] You're so funny, Starlight! Maud is nothing like Mudbriar. If she were, then we wouldn't be best sister friends forever.
Well, Maud obviously likes something about him.
Maybe you just need to spend more time with him. Find out what you have in common.
That's easy – nothing!
You both care about Maud. I know. He could help you with her party.
I guess...
And I'll keep Maud busy while you and Mudbriar plan the best surprise birthday ever.
That I can do!
Listen. Maud's birthday is tomorrow, and there's no time to waste. You're not afraid of slides, are you?
No. Whyyyyyyyyyyy??!
Oof!
No reason. Wheeeeeee!
Welcome to my party planning cave!
Technically, due to the speleothems growing from the ceiling, this is more of a cavern than a cave. Maud taught me that.
Yeah, okay.
Here's what I'm thinking for her surprise party – edible rock candy plates, gem-shaped ice cubes, a pebble piñata. Uh... we'll skip that one.
Might I make some suggestions?
Oh. Suggest away! That's why you're here! You and me! Planning... together! Friends!
I have a vision board of everything Maud loves, and none of those things are on it.
Hmph. Let me see this "vision board".
It's not a physical thing. I'm envisioning it. [quietly] Om, I enter through the large door of my mind palace and enter to the back, where I have all of my books and possessions, and what do I encounter? The Maud Room. None of those things are there. [out loud] Just as I thought. Maud doesn't like surprises.
Where does it say that? She never told me that!
Mmm. It sounds like she was protecting your feelings. She's very caring that way.
Stop acting like you know my sister better than me!
Technically, I never said that.
[angrily] Well, technically, I don't care! And since I've been best sister friends forever with Maud my entire life, I think I'm the expert here! Oh, but fine. If you don't believe me, let's ask her! [whispering] But we have to be super-sneaky.
Can you be more specific?
No!
Huh. You must be Mudbriar.
I'm Starlight Glimmer. Nice to meet you. I've heard great things!
I'm so glad the two of you are spending time together. So... how's it going?
Mudbriar and I have just spent the best time bonding! And we're really starting to make some headway becoming besties, except for one teensy-weensy disagreement that maybe you could settle, Maud. See, Mudbriar here seems to think that [starting to laugh] you don't like surprise parties! Isn't it funny how [suddenly angry] wrong he is?!
[deadpan] I like surprise parties...
Hmmmm.
[deadpan] ...because I know they make you happy when you throw them for me.
See? Wait, what?!
[deadpan] I'd rather just do something small with you, Starlight, Boulder, and Mudbriar for my birthday.
No party? No party?! Did he put you up to this?!
[deadpan] Mm-mm.
[whispering] Maybe you should consider, I don't know, taking things a little less serious with Mudbriar because he's kinda sort of... [loudly] impossible to like?!
Hey, Mudbriar, have you ever flown a kite? Let me tell you all about it. See, the first thing you should do is—
I just can't believe you would choose sitting around with him over a party with your own sister!
[deadpan] I didn't choose either of you. Technically, I said I wanted to be with both of you.
[gasps] "Technically"?! Ugh, you even like the way he talks?
[deadpan] Everything about him makes me happy.
[gasps] [tearing up] Then I guess you don't need a best sister friend forever anymore.
[deadpanly concerned] Pinkie...
Uh, wait, let's all slow down and talk about this.
See you later!
[crying] I don't understand! How could Maud like Mudbriar? Is it Opposite Day? Nothing makes sense!
Fluttershy' I'm not shy, and I hate animals!
Rarity' Fashion?! Not for me, darling!
Applejack' Peh! An apple a day is downright disgusting!
Rainbow Dash' Slow and steady wins the race!
Twilight Sparkle' I never learned to read!
Get out of bed, sis. If you're gonna be here, you gotta work.
Ohhh.
You're probably wondering why I came back to the family farm in the middle of the night.
Mm-hmm.
Well, it all started when—
Less talking, more farming!
[sad groan] It's just... Maud has a boyfriend.
I'm not jealous! Who said anything about jealous?!
Buck up, Pinkie Pie. You look as miserable as I feel all the time.
It's just that I love Maud, and I want to love Mudbriar, but I can't see anything to like about him!
Ugh, fine! We're taking a work break. Come on!
I'm looking at a sparkling bright blue and white rock. See it?
You mean that lumpy grey one?
No, the beautiful blue and white one. Right there.
I would not describe that as beautiful, blue, or white, but... [laughs nervously] Okay.
[to Marble] Show her.
It's a geode! The outside looks like a regular rock, but the inside is filled with beautiful gems.
So you're saying I should crack open Mudbriar like a rock! It all makes sense! No, wait. It doesn't.
It's a metaphor, Pinkie! You see Mudbriar as a rock, but Maud sees him as a gem. Even if you never see past his dullness, you can see how happy he makes Maud. And to a sister, that's all that matters.
Mm-hmm!
Oh, Limestone, Marble, thank you! I don't know what I'd do without you two! Pie pile!
Okay, okay! You're crushing me to gravel, Pinkie!
I really owe Mudbriar an apology. [gasps] And I owe Maud a party! I just hope I'm not too late!
I brought you an olive branch to say sorry. I was really unfair to you, and I'm ready to listen to your ideas for Maud's birthday, if you still want to plan it together.
Technically, this isn't even an olive branch. It's a quercus, most likely castaneifolia.
Oh, come on! [through gritted teeth] Sorry! Keeping it together...!
And I love a good quercus. Friends?
Friends! Now, do you have any ideas for the party?
There is one.
Surprise!
Can you believe this punch? Oh, it's so good!
Another great party!
I know!
Yeah!
[deadpanly happy] This is my favorite party ever.
It was all your amazing boyfriend's idea. He said the best present would be me throwing you a surprise party you didn't have to go to.
Technically, it wasn't a surprise because she could see the pre-party preparations from up here.
[through gritted teeth] Technically... [normally] You're right!
Don't worry, Angel, I won't forget you.
[sighs] There's nothing so peaceful as a cuddly friends picnic.
Fluttershy!
Oh, goodness, Rarity! What's the matter?
Oh, the better question would be, "What isn't the matter?"
Oh, dear. Do you wanna have some lettuce and talk about it?
Uh... Oh! I would love to, darling, but I just don't have the time. The Canterlot Royal Fashion Show is practically upon us, and the cornerstone piece of my collection just isn't working!
Oh, that sounds serious.
Oh-ho-ho, it's serious. The entire collection is designed around it!
Do you need help knitting? I've started making tea cozies. It's an elephant.
Yes, well, I don't need help making clothes. Sassy Saddles is pitching in. Plus, I'll be pulling all three of my Manehattan assistants.
All three? Does that mean you'll have to close Rarity For You?
That's just it, darling. This is Manehattan's busiest shopping season, and I can't just close the shop. So I was hoping... you might consider running it?
Of course. I'm happy to help. Though I'm surprised you picked me.
Well, I may have asked a few others.
Sorry, but we've got a Wonderbolts show coming up.
Sorry, but it's pie season and the pie orders are piling up.
Sorry, I've got a curriculum to make up.
Nope.
Nnnope.
[deadpan] My calendar's packed, but I hear Fluttershy's free. And you haven't asked Boulder.
Uh... Oh?
[chuckles] It doesn't matter who else I asked, because I couldn't be happier that you agreed to help!
I think I forgot how big this shop was. How do you find anything?
Oh, darling, it's easy to track. The store is divided into sections – chic, classic, modern, sophisticated, avant-garde, traditional, and obtuse. And, of course, each section is divided by season, color, and price. It's a classic SCP system. Then it's just a little ringing ponies up...
...a little fluff and fold... Voilà! But, of course, that's the easy part.
[gasps] It is?
Mm-hmm. As you well know, the real focus at Rarity For You is on the customer!
Care to give it a try?
Um, okay. [quietly] Hello. Um, welcome to Rarity For You. What can I help you with?
I need something classic but modern. Something with drama but also understated.
Um, aren't all those things opposites?
Yes. So?
But how can I—?
I'm sorry. Are you asking me how to do your job?
No! But I just, um—
If I may, I'm thinking noir-esque minimalist but with a twist. Perhaps a tapered hem.
Hmm. The inseams say, "Yes!"
Wow. You make it look so easy.
Oh, darling, come now. You've conquered your shyness a thousand times over. You can't let a few fashion ponies undo all that progress.
I guess not.
You simply must access your inner strength and allow it to shine through!
How?
Uh, daily affirmations? Meditation? Ooh! Power posing works wonders whenever I feel intimidated. Try these. Confident warrior! Gold medalist! Showpony!
[clears throat] Or... not.
We need to leave now if we're going to catch the train to Canterlot.
Oh, goodness, look at the time! Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, go, go! I'm right behind you!
You're not gonna be here? In your work room?
But, darling, I simply can't. The fashion show is in Canterlot tomorrow, and I'll be up all night, even with the help of all of my assistants!
Well, not all my assistants.
Smoky! Softpad! Smoky Jr.!
Ever since you convinced me to let them live in the shop, these beastie sweeties have been nothing but helpful.
And I'm sure they'll help me let my inner strength shine through!
Oh, I wish I could stay and offer more help. [gasps] Why not try a new outfit? Think of it as the costume for your role as... Shop Pony! Ha ha! You know what they say – "clothes make the pony".
Um, who says that?
You know, "them". All right. I'm sure you and your furry friends will do just fine. Ta-ta!
[sighs] I hope she's right.
Whew. Here goes nothing.
Welcome to Rarity For You. What can I help you with?
What's the thread count of this shirt? I can't be seen in anything less than a thousand.
Um, thread... count? Um... Well, I'm not sure. Let's see... Um, one, two, three, four...
Oh, I'm afraid I don't know much about fashion to satisfy these customers. What am I gonna do?
Oh, I've never tried to act before, but... I suppose it's worth a shot.
[clears throat, snooty voice] Severe but not unapproachable. Acceptable business attire. [normal voice] Oh, does that sound like a shop pony to you?
[snooty voice] So sorry for the wait. The shop has some... staffing issues today.
Yes, well, I still haven't had an answer on this thread count.
Here at Rarity For You, our merchandise defies typical attempts to quantify its quality, but rest assured, it will make you the envy of all who see it.
Oh, in that case, I'll take three!
Ta-ta!
[normal voice, sighs, faints, pants, sighs] Smoky Jr., I can't believe it worked! [snooty voice] I suppose clothes really do make the pony after all.
I don't know about you, but I have a full day of shopping planned. And if even one shop pony isn't up to my standards, well, I shall make my displeasure quite plain.
Rarity?
Oh, darling, I'm afraid I can't stop. Potential emergency at the boutique.
Oh, well, whatever it is, I'm quite certain the pony you left in charge can handle it. Oh, she's simply divine!
Oh, well, I always knew Fluttershy had it in her. [laughs] And there's still time to catch the train to Canterlot!
[snooty voice] It's an unique play on the old standard. We call it a Rarity cut with a triple-cut stitched hem and a guacamole chevka pattern fabric.
Don't you mean "chevron"?
If I had meant "chevron", then that's what I would've said.
 [chuckles] Of course. It's so unique! So en vogue! It must be mine!
[normal voice] Aw, thanks, everyone. But I feel I should push the snootiness further.
If you really wanna help, I suppose serving tea would be nice. Oh, if you don't mind.
I like my accessories bold and shiny, and I'm just not seeing anything nearly bold and shiny enough.
[snooty voice] I'm afraid bold and shiny won't work with your whole... modelle. Perhaps... pointy.
Pointy? Yes! I must have pointy!
Not everypony can pull off a found object, but you... nearly get there.
[millennial accent] I need, like, a red carpet glitz-and-glamour gown that's also casual, but, like, still artsy and a total head-turner.
Yes. Casual chic prêt-à-porter is very branché this season.
Uhhh... Like, I don't understand any of that, so, like... I don't care about it?
Um, one moment, please.
[normal voice] Oh, I think I need a new character.
[hipster voice] Okay, I've got, like, this high-key savage look for you? It's a totally live ensemble with a little, like, thingies that sparkle and make the whole squad go, "Whoa! That pony is 'woke'!"
That is, like, exactly what I need!
"Snow Hope": This store is a desperate wasteland of nothingness. Do you have anything in black?
[hipster voice] Can you, like, chill for one sec? BRB.
[goth voice] It's not like the futility of shopping can be made better with black leather and metal studs, but they help.
"Snow Hope": Uh.... that jacket completes me.
[spits] [British accent] This tea's, like, lukewarm. It's barely drinkable.
[snooty voice] This tea must always be at a precise temperature! See that it doesn't happen again!
[hipster voice] Whoa, that color is, like, almost too lit for you? [goth voice] The blackness of this vest is a reflection of your soul. [snooty voice] This hemline is nothing short of an inspiration of craftsponyship. Are you sure you deserve it?
[snooty voice] I don't know what's worse – that you spilled the tea or that it's still cold! Either get it right or go back to the forest!
Oh, it is so hard to find good help these days.
Okay! Okay! Slow down, everyone! I'm doing my best!
So, Rarity is busy at an important fashion show, and Fluttershy is running her shop in Manehattan, but to do it, she's playing different shop pony characters that are all mean?
How in the world did you figure that out, Spike?
I'm not Dragon Charades champion for nothin'!
I can't imagine Fluttershy would ever be mean to her animal friends. This sounds serious. Spike, tell everyone it's time to head back to Saddle Row!
[snooty voice] I wouldn't think it was possible to make something so dowdy even more matronly, but here you are. [goth voice] It's like a scream in the void, empty and ultimately meaningless. [hipster voice] I would srsly help you right now, but, like, I don't wanna, you know?
You weren't kidding. This is worse than we thought! She's being horrible to everypony!
Uh, are you sure that's even Fluttershy?
Maybe it's just three really, really fast ponies that really, really look like her!
Well, let's find out! Hey, Fluttershy? Are you running the shop or performing in a one-pony show?
[snooty voice] If you don't mind, I can only improve the taste of one customer at a time. You'll have to wait your turn. Ugh, honestly! These small town ponies come to the big city and think they can behave any way they please!
What?! You are a small-town pony! And your cottage isn't even in the town!
Look, Fluttershy, we came here because we were worried and we care about you.
[goth voice, to Neigh Sayer] Let's get out of this aura of positivity before it consumes us.
As fun as this Fluttershy switcheroo game is, Smoky, Smoky Jr., and Softpad are really concerned.
Yeah! They came all the way to Ponyville to get us.
[hipster voice] They should have, like, stayed there? The shop is, like, a no-rodent zone now.
She called them "rodents"?!
Fluttershy, I understand why you think you have to act this way for these customers, but there's gotta be a better way.
[snooty voice] [sarcastically] Goodness! You are so right. Please, step this way so that we may discuss your concerns.
I knew you'd come to your senses!
[snooty voice] Indeed.
Ugh, the centerpiece of my collection, and it's still not right! Oh, darling, I'm afraid we've literally run out of time. It's up to you! Go out there and sell it! Now, attitude!
I don't understand. When I left Fluttershy, she had everything well in hoof.
Well, things might have seemed all right when you left, but they're definitely not all right now.
She's actin' worse than the worst Manehattanite I ever saw!
She kicked us out of the shop!
She called Smoky, Smoky Jr., and Softpad... "rodents"!
Wh-wh-wha... Rodents?! Well, why didn't you say that from the start?! She obviously needs help! Come on!
[goth voice] Your melancholy is way too shallow for a look with this much unfeeling depth.
"Snow Hope": Huh.
[hipster voice] Ugh! Your style isn't even on the same page? Turn away. Don't even look at it, okay?
[gasps] I can't even!
[snooty voice] I think not, dear! This is all far too fashion forward for the likes of you!
Ugh! Well, I never!
[sighs] Told ya it was bad.
Bad? This is worse than I could've possibly imagined!
[snooty voice] Rarity! I'm so glad you're here! [kissing noises] Finally, a pony who understands that the couture in this shop is far too brilliant to even consider selling!
Whaaat?!
[hipster voice] You, like, totally get how lame customers are? Ugh! [goth voice] Watching them leave filled me with a sweet sadness. [snooty voice] And you'll be pleased to hear that I've taken care of your rodent situation.
Will somebody tell her to stop saying that?!
That's it! Fluttershy, I'm afraid you've left me no choice! You are terminated!
[snooty voice] Well! Good luck replacing me! Humph!
[goth voice] I always thought she was too controlling.
You— you— you are terminated, too!
[goth voice] Whatever.
[hipster voice] I know, right? I mean, uh, ugh?
Actually, you're, like, totally terminated as well!
[hipster voice] Like, okay.
[normal voice] I guess I owe everypony an apology.
[sighs] You think?
I got so caught up trying to please all of your customers that—
What customers?
I might have taken my salespony characters a little too far.
[to raccoons] I'm sorry if I hurt your feelings. You know I was only pretending, right?
But, Fluttershy, why did you think you needed to be somepony else to run the shop?
I guess acting like the ponies of Saddle Row gave me the confidence to interact with them.
Darling, I'd never trust some horrible Saddle Row pony to run my shop. That's why I wanted a friend to do it.
Well, I'd definitely rather be myself anyway, even if I don't exactly have what it takes to be a shop pony.
I wouldn't sell yourself short. Those salespony characters all came from you!
Yeah! I think you totally have what it takes.
Maybe a little too much.
Indeed. You have all the inner strength you need, but I think we prefer it coming from our sweet, regular Fluttershy.
And that's just given me the inspiration I'm looking for!
And last one... There! The missing piece for my new collection – the Warrior of Inner Strength!
Oh, gorgeous!
Oh, it's lovely, Rarity! I'm just sorry you had to leave the Canterlot Royal Fashion Show early.
Oh, darling, making the perfect dress is scads more satisfying than showing it off.
Ooh, striking dress, Rarity. I certainly hope you aren't trying to undercut the Royal Fashion Show by ducking out and debuting it here.
What? No, I—
[snooty voice] Have you considered the possibility that the Royal Fashion Show is trying to undercut Rarity's by continuing on in Canterlot and not moving the whole affair here?! Hmm?! Have you?! Hmmm?!
I, uh... No.
[snooty voice] Hmph! Just as I thought! Hmmm!
[to Rarity] Oh! [giggles] Inner strength.
I'm sooo glad I made it to Las Pegasus before the fastest, most thrilling ride of all time closes for good!
Wait. The fastest, most thrilling ride of all time?
[gasps] She hasn't heard of the Wild Blue Yonder?
[scoffs] Of course I have! It's that one where, uh... All right, you got me. What is it?
Only the coolest rollercoaster ever!
[scoffs] You can't really call yourself a Wonderbolt if you haven't been on it.
It looks incredible!
Oh, it is. First, you strap yourself into the cloud rocket car, and then you're catapulted straight through a...
...series of daring dips and terrifying turns...
...flipping upside-down so many times you don't know which way is up!
'Til finally you climb to the highest peak on the rails! Then drop towards the ground at lightning speed...
...before coming up to a screeching halt! It's the coolest ride ever to exist in the history of Equestria!
So, when did you ride it?
Oh. [laughs] I haven't.
The ride closes this week! Forever! But I can't go to Las Pegasus because I have to teach at Twilight's school. I'm gonna miss out on the coolest rollercoaster of all time! Unless...
Why do I feel like you're about to ask me a mighty big favor?
Absolutely!
On one condition. You tag along with a few other ponies goin' to Las Pegasus.
[laughs] Surely you don't mean Granny Smith!
No, no, of course not. I mean Granny Smith and the rest of the Gold Horseshoe Gals.
Hurry your haunches, hinnies!
Grand Auntie Applesauce, cousin Apple Rose, and cousin Goldie Delicious.
Why, I'm sure they'd be plumb tickled to have you join their annual grandmares' trip to Las Pegasus. It'll be perfect. I'll teach your classes, and you can look after them for me.
[scoffs] Look after them?
So they don't get too carried away. Usually Big Mac goes along as a chaperone, but I'm sure he'd love a break.
There is no way I'm going to Las Pegasus with a bunch of old, slow grannies!
So you don't mind missin' your only chance to ride the Wild Blue Yonder?
Ugh, fine! I'll go!
Ha! That's the spirit! Now skedaddle so I can help them get ready.
Applejack! Have you seen my cranky flank cream? I can't find it in this whole tootin' farmhouse.
It's, uh, gonna take a while.
[groaning] Why is this taking so long? The Wild Blue Yonder's gonna close before we even get to Las Pegasus.
Here. I made a list to help you keep the grandmares out of trouble. Don't wanna have to bring 'em back home before you get to go on your rollercoaster.
That could happen?!
Only if you don't follow the rules. These grannies need a lot of care. If one of 'em overdoes it, it's bye-bye Las Pegasus for the lot of ya.
[reading] "Make sure they get their naps". "Eat only soft foods". "Careful when dancing"? "Don't get too excited"? Seriously?!
And don't let 'em out of your sight. Ever.
Wait. Then how am I supposed to go on the rollercoaster?
You'll find time. And you might even learn a thing or two about havin' a good time from these old gals.
Yeah. That'll happen.
All right, y'all! Time to get this show on the road! [chuckles] Or in the sky, in this case.
[groans] Come on, come on, come on!
Go, go, go, go, go!
Argh! Everypony okay in there?
Dandy as a pansy in a plant pot!
You know, this hot air balloon ride reminds me of the time I climbed a tree. Have I ever told you that story?
Only about a million times.
Huh? What did you say?
[echoing] They said they've heard the tree story!
Oh, you wanna hear the tree story? Okay.
Here we go again.
The Wild Blue Yonder is in our hotel?! Uh, I bet you grannies are feeling super tired from your journey.
Nope! How about a trot down the avenue to see the sights, girls?
Oh, forget the sights! I came here to play some serious horseshoe toss!
Oh, can we see the rainbow fountains at the water show? They're so magical!
My pores are crying for a mud mask at the Prism Palace Spa!
[gasps] Oh-my-gosh-oh-my-gosh-oh-my-gosh-oh-my-gosh! There it is! The best rollercoaster ever!
Aaah! Warm up those withers, ladies! There's a horseshoe-hurlin' trophy with our names on it!
[ghostly voice] Don't let them get too excited! Or you'll have to go hooooooome!
[gasps] Whoa-whoa-whoa-whoa-whoa. That sounds a little too exciting. Why don't we get you checked in first?
Oh, my. You are a strong pony. Aren't you, sugarhocks?
"Luggage Cart": Welcome to our Gold Horseshoe Suite. Only the best of the best for our favorite guests. Which, of course, means you lovely mares.
Why, thank you a bushel and a peck, you scrumptious morsel of frosted carrot cake.
"Luggage Cart": Oh. [chuckles] Thank you, ma'am.
I think he was sweet on me. Maybe I should ask him to accompany me to the magic show tonight.
Ha-ha! You sure your name's not Applesaucey? Better find the brakes on that buggy, sugar. We just got here.
You're right. Better see what else is out there first. The day is young, and I am not!
Uh, Granny Smith's right. Let's not overdo it. How about a nice nap so you can really enjoy Las Pegasus?
[yawns] Good idea. We could use some shut-eye, hmm?
But I'm not tired. Uh, oh, right! Uh, yaaaawn.
You go along now and explore while we rest, sugar booger. Yawn.
Uh, if you say so! [to Lemon Squeezy] What? They'll be in here sleeping the whole time I'm gone!
Quit judging me!
[clears throat] One ticket for the coolest rollercoaster of all time, please. [gasps] But... But... this line never ends!
"Cranberry Muffin": I know, right? Good thing we can just stand here all day without any responsibilities waiting for us!
"Cranberry Muffin": Oh, hey, thanks!
Enjoy the ride.
Heh. They didn't even know I left.
Whoa!
Aah! [gasps] They're gone!
[panicked whimpering] Granny Smith! Apple Rose! Are you here?! Applesauce? Goldie? Oh, I'm the worst chaperone ever!
[ghostly voice] Don't let them out of your siiiiiiiiight!
I know, I know! Excuse me, sir. Have you seen a group of old mares around here?
"Tight End": Lady, you just described half the ponies in this place.
[groans] This place is huge! They could be anywhere!
[chanting] Goldie! Goldie! Goldie! Goldie! Goldie! Goldie!
Can they do it? Can good old Goldie Delicious and the Gold Horseshoe Gals break the all-time resort record, folks?
Now that's how you hurl a horseshoe!
Ha! No way! Goldie's totally got game!
Make some noise for the best-played game of horseshoes this resort has ever seen! Can you believe your eyes, folks?
Yeah! Go, Goldie!
Stand back! She's getting excited!
Huh? Uh-oh!
Oh, oop!
Uh, mind if I try?
Whoops. Guess I'm no good at this game. Sorry.
And the Gold Horseshoe Gals are out! Looks like the show's over, everypony.
Oh, I'm so glad I found you! Everypony feeling okay? Not too excited?
Pretty much the opposite right now.
[sighs] Good. From now on, I'm not letting you grannies out of my sight.
In that case, let's paint the town candy apple red!
Ooh! We could play more games!
That's what we ought to do!
Really?
Hit the buffet! All that horseshoe tossin' sure works up an appy-tite.
[sighs] Uh-huh...
I love me some nachos. I'mma set my dentures loose on these vittles until the crumbs cry uncle!
[ghostly voice] They can only eat soft foods! You're a nacho away from no rolly-coaster!
Come on, Granny. You know you can't have those. They're super crunchy.
How about some nice soft carrot soup, instead?
I thought you was supposed to be the fun one.
Wait. I am fun!
[over P.A.] Attention all, thrill-seekers! There's only one day left to ride the ride of all rides, the Wild Blue Yonder, before it's gone for good! Get in line! Now!
I'd rather hit the club and show off my dance moves. I'm quite a legend when it comes to rumba.
Sounds kind of intense. Aren't you all exhausted from your big day?
Heck no! We save up our energy all year for Las Pegasus weekend, isn't that right, girls?
Auntie Applesauce, Apple Rose, Mmm-hmm!
Ugh. Dancing it is, then. I'll be there.
[ghostly voice] Careful when daaaaaanciiiiing!
Ugh! Stop doing that! Uh, that's probably enough dancing for now! Right, Apple Rose?
Oh, that was just my warm-up.
Look! It's our favorite magicians, Big Bucks and Jack Pot! And aren't they lookin' handsome as ever?
[laughs, ahem] You little fillies have got some smooth moves!
Say, how would you Gold Horseshoe Gals like to bring some of that good energy into our magic show tonight?
Here's five complimentary VIP tickets to our most amazing trick in the Ponet Fantastique Theater, just over there.
Sugarcube, we never miss your show.
Fabulous. We'll save a spot for you on stage.
And in our hearts.
So gross.
Oh, come on! You said you were going back to the room after dancing! So each pony could have some alone time?
Oh, now don't be a stick in the mud! Trust me, you'll loooove this show! It's the best thing in Las Pegasus!
"Cranberry Muffin": Oh, hey! Thanks for giving me your place in line. They said I'm one of the last ponies ever to ride the Wild Blue Yonder! Ha!
And now, for the trick that made us famous!
The most dangerous magical feat known to ponykind.
We'd like to invite some very special mares to the stage.
That's our cue, girls!
Hey, where are you going? Come back!
Meet our lovely assistants!
They will make a splashtastic escape using only the instructions we give them... with our minds.
Don't try this at home, folks!
[normal voice] Do I really have to say anything?
Release those grannies, right now!
What'd ya go and do that for?! That was our big star moment!
Y-You were in danger! I saw the water! You were trapped!
Oh, pish-tosh! This is a magic show! We've seen it a thousand times! Everypony always escapes.
Uh, that's right, folks! Because of our, um, skill as magicians!
And now, a disappearing act!
Well, I hope you're happy! We've been waiting to be picked as the lovely assistants in that trick for years!
You keep ruinin' our fun! I had a hot hoof goin' in that game you decided to lose for us!
And I wanted to eat those nachos at the buffet!
And I could have torn up the dance floor if you didn't keep stopping me!
They're bein' too polite to say it, so I will! Rainbow Dash, we thought you'd be a hoot, but I ain't never met a wetter hen!
What?!
She's right! You've had your mane in a twist ever since we arrived!
Is something the matter, dear?
I'm so sorry, everypony. The truth is, all I wanted to do for this whole trip is ride the Wild Blue Yonder. I mean, it's why I came to Las Pegasus in the first place! Applejack told me not to let you out of my sight, or you might overdo it and we'd have to go home early.
Applejack put you up to this?
Well, now it's too late. I ruined your trip, and it's the last day ever to ride the Wild Blue Yonder! The line is so long, I'll never get to go on it.
Hey, what's so funny?
[chuckling] Is that all you wanted?
Well, fish-flavored kitten kibble. Why didn't you say so sooner? Come on, girls!
We're Gold Horseshoe members. The most exclusive club in Las Pegasus. And she's with us.
We've been comin' here every moon since we can remember. Even some we don't remember.
It definitely has its perks.
Like fancy suites and rollercoaster rides?
That's right. And I hope you like riding in the front.
Um, yes! [squeals] This is amazing! Isn't this amazing?
Sugar, you probably want to hold on 'bout now.
I'm sorry I misjudged you for being older ponies. You mares are actually pretty cool.
Rainbow Dash?
Yeah, Granny?
Ha-ha! Really?
Mm-hmm.
Same time next year?
I wouldn't miss it for anything!
Princess Twilight!
We're glowing!
[giggling] That's what happens when you're summoned by the Map.
Somepony needs our help?
We're being called by the Map?
Did I mention we're glowing?!
So where exactly in Equestria are we needed?
Actually, where you're going isn't even in Equestria.
Wow! That's almost... off the table!
But what's way out there?
Mount Aris, the home of the Hippogriffs! And that's where you're headed!
Whoa...!
You really don't need to come with us, Twilight. We can take care of this mission just fine on our own.
Mm-hmm.
Yeah!
Oof!
Ugh!
I know that. But I'm not so sure the ponies who care about you want you going off so far on your own. Besides, there's some school business I need to take care of on Mount Aris. This permission slip is for Silverstream. It's very important that her mother and father sign it, or else no field trips.
[whispering, to Apple Bloom and Sweetie Belle] Sounds like somepony just wants a vacation.
Okay, yes, I have been wanting to visit Mount Aris ever since the Hippogriffs moved back. But it's purely research. Silverstream's brother is gonna meet us there and take us to their houses.
Wow! They have more than one house?
I guess so. The social structure of the Hippogriffs and seaponies is a bit of a mystery.
"All Aboard": All aboard! Last stop – the new Mount Aris Station!
I don't know if I'd like being a Hippogriff. Part bird, part pony...
I'm happy with just my pony parts, thanks.
I think Hippogriffs are pretty neat. I learned all about them from Applejack. The Hippogriffs all once lived happily on Mount Aris. But when the Storm King invaded, they used a magic pearl to turn into seaponies and escape to the underwater safety of Seaquestria. Then, in the Battle of Canterlot, when Applejack defeated the Storm King—
Wait, what? She told you she defeated him? By herself?
Uh, maybe she didn't say that exactly. But it makes for a better story.
"All Aboard": Final stop – Mount Aris Station!
Whoa!
All right. So what kind of cutie mark-related friendship problem do you think we're supposed to solve.
I don't know. But Hippogriffs don't have cutie marks. So it might not have anything to do with that at all.
Huh. Still, the Map called us, so it must be a kind of problem that only we can solve.
Go, Crusaders!
But how do we know exactly who we're supposed to help?
Ahem. Attention, please! Anygriff here have a problem?
Eh. That's all I got.
Maybe if the Map could be a little more specific about our mission, like maybe... an address?
The Map doesn't really work like that. But I'm sure you and whoever needs help will find each other.
Excuse me! Miss Sparkle? Over here! Sorry I'm late. I'm Silverstream's brother Terramar.
A Hippogriff can have a seapony for a brother? How does that work exactly?
Shhh! It's rude to ask a question like that!
Whoa!
Can I ask now?
[chuckles] It is kind of strange. See, after the Storm King was defeated, the seaponies didn't have to hide anymore. So some of them changed back to Hippogriffs and went home to Mount Aris.
But others got used to living under the water and stayed in Seaquestria.
And me? Well, I kind of go back and forth with this. It's a tiny piece of the magic pearl. It was split up among our kingdoms.
Well, I'm pretty eager to see the Hippogriff village. You know, to... get this form signed. And... research! So...
Hey, Terramar? Does anygriff you know up there have a problem they need help with?
[chuckles] On Mount Aris? No. Everygriff is pretty happy up there. [sighs] It's a great place to live.
Whoa! This looks amazing! Last time I was here, it was a ghost town!
Yeah. Queen Novo thought it was important to return our village to its former glory.
And now, I officially open the "Glad to Be a Hippogriff" Festival!
Ahh! Whoa!
Wow! We picked a good day to show up!
Not really. We do this every weekend. Hippogriffs really like being Hippogriffs.
[chuckles] There's my boy!
Hi, Dad!
Haven't seen you in days, son. Wish you'd come around more often.
Oh! Dad, these are some of Silverstream's friends from Equestria. They came up to—
Aah!
Attention, everygriff! Princess Twilight Sparkle is here! She's Silverstream's teacher!
Here to take in the marvel that is Mount Aris, your Highness?
Absolutely! And to have you sign a form for Silverstream.
Glad to! But first, let's show the princess some real Mount Aris hospitality! To the refreshment tent for a stein of salmon juice!
Eh. Research. See you later! And good luck! I know you'll find your mission!
Well, your dad's certainly... outgoing, isn't he?
He's a great guy. All my relatives are nice. That's kind of the problem—
Wait, stop.
What's that wonderful sound?
Those are the Harmonizing Heights. Legend says that—
Woo-hoo! Yeah! Awesome! I love this!
Uh, is she okay?
This is absolutely the best place ever! You are so lucky!
And you get to swim in the ocean! You have two great places to live!
How do you make up your mind which one to stay in?
I can't. That's the problem.
Did you say... "problem"?
You have a problem?!
Yes!
Woo-hoo! We discovered our mission!
All right!
We did it!
Sorry. You were talking about your problem?
Right. Like I said, Mount Aris is one great place to live. That's why Silverstream and my dad and some of my cousins came back here. But Seaquestria is another great place to live. That's where my mom is.
Ohhhh. I-I didn't know that.
So no matter where I am, I feel like I'm letting someone down.
No wonder you're having such a hard time deciding.
And I have to choose soon. Every other griff my age already knows where they belong. I'm still not sure.
When in doubt, chart it out!
Now, we put down everything great about each place and everything not so great. Compare them, and... your decision is made for you!
Well, it's obvious, isn't it? Mount Aris is the best of all possible worlds. Pro – it's beautiful. Con – too far from Equestria. I think that pretty much sums it up.
But you haven't been to Seaquestria yet. How can you even compare them?
Terramar's right, Sweetie Belle. It'd be fair if we visited both places before we decide.
Hey, everypony! This festival is fantastic! Look what I won at the ring toss booth! Ahem. But of course, I'm really here on business. Sky Beak's already signed the form. Now I just need your mom's signature. Is she around?
Um... she's a seapony. In Seaquestria.
That's what Silverstream meant by "houses"!
Mm-hmm. If you'd like to meet my mom, we're just heading down there now.
And how exactly are we gonna visit underwater?
Whoa! [giggling] Woo-hoo! Yeah! [giggling] Whoa! This must be just like flying! Woo-hoo!
Where's your mom's house, Terramar?
Come on. It's this way.
This is awesome!
Mom!
Terramar! Welcome home, baby! No excuses. This time, you're staying for dinner.
[chuckles] Scootaloo, Sweetie Belle, Apple Bloom, this is my mom Ocean Flow. And this is—
[gasps] Princess Twilight Sparkle! What an honor! You know, Silverstream just raves about you.
Well, she is one of our most hardworking students. In fact, I brought this form for you to sign so that—
Both my children are so smart. Would you like to see their baby pictures?
Mom!
That sounds adorable! I'd love to! And you know, to find out about aquatic pony early development and, uh...
[giggling] Research.
Oh, well, maybe your friends would like a snack while we're gone? Some kelp chips? Fish oil tea?
No, thanks, Mom. I'm gonna go show them around.
Look out! [giggling] Can't catch me!
Huh. Not much sunlight down here, is there?
Boom-ba-da-boom-ba-da-boom-ba-da-boom-ba-da-boom-ba-da-boom-ba-da-boom!
[bubbly] Everything sounds funny down here!
Okay. I've seen everything I need to. So, uh, why don't we find Twilight Sparkle, finish the chart, and, uh, head back up the mountain? I have some serious field twirling to do.
[screeches] Princess Twilight, you're back! And just in time for the screeching competition.
Why not? Could be another trophy in my future! Be back soon!
All right! Let's add some positives to the Seaquestria side!
Uh-huh!
Swimming is like flying, multi-color fish, and did I mention the flying thing?!
You forgot the cons. Dark, wet, sea monsters...
I don't remember any sea monsters. Apple Bloom, looks like it's up to you.
Me? Well... Both places have a lot of good things about them. I can understand why it's hard for you to decide.
Your heart is in two places, you can only live in one You're torn between the hilltops and the tide
Thank goodness that the Cutie Mark Crusaders have begun To give you hope and help you to decide
These hills, they call to you, they say "Harmonizing Heights" This is your home, simple and serene The sun-dappled leaves or a mountain terrace You can see twenty-three different shades of green
To dare to compare anywhere to there Is unfair and just plain wrong Colt or mare or you wear feathers, fins, or hair This is where you belong
Well, on the other hoof, I can think of a place that's way more exciting and cool, not to mention more you! Come on, you know exactly where I mean!
Seaquestria's the most, you're supposed to be there Underneath the sea where you can feel at home Swimmin' with your friends, you can spend all day here Playin' in the bay here, splashin' in the foam
Sailin' through the wavy blue You'll view a slew of tortoises Forget the rest, the sea's the best For all intents and "porpoises"
Build your nest here on Harmonizing Heights
Live it up here in Seaquestria
Nothing compares to Harmonizing Heights The eagles are regal
But the schools are cooler
Their claws are so awesome
With their sweet maneuvers
Star wishes every night
Starfish by eel light
Better
Wetter
Shinier
Brinier Seaquestria!
Harmonizing Heights!
Seaquestria!
Harmonizing Heights!
That's it! This is the end! Don't ever talk to me again!
Terramar, where're you goin'?
Ugh! If you all can't even agree amongst yourselves, how am I supposed to make up my mind?! It's hopeless!
Hmph!
Sweetie Belle said to tell you it's your fault that Terramar ran off.
Well, you tell Sweetie Belle that if it weren't for her, our mission would've been over by now! And a success!
[sighs] Scootaloo says this whole thing is your fault.
Well, tell her that I'm not the one who dashed all of Terramar's hopes and made him give up on the world! Both worlds!
[sighs] Sweetie Belle says it's your fault that Terramar ran— Oh. Wait. I already told you that, didn't I?
Uh, what's going on? Where's Terramar?
Uh, well... he... he kinda left. He wanted to be by himself.
Which was not my fault!
Mine, either!
Well, of course not. Why would you think that?
Because it was our fault.
All we had to do was help him choose which world to live in.
And we let him down.
Whoever said that he had to choose?
Well, he did.
Hmmm... Maybe Terramar's making it harder than it has to be.
Yoo-hoo! Princess! We're having a seashell-crafting circle. Care to join us?
Actually, we're right in the middle of—
There you are! The flag-folding ceremony's about to begin!
Thank you, really. I've had a great time in both places today, but... [whispering, to Cutie Mark Crusaders] Wow. This must be how Terramar feels all the time.
Oh! Hello, Sky Beak.
Ocean Flow! You're looking well.
Hmmm... This gives me an idea.
Huh. I thought for sure he came this way.
[gasps] He did.
And I'm staying here, too! That way, I don't have to be on land or in the water!
We're sorry. We were supposed to help you, and...
...we just ended up confusing you more. It's all our fault.
Oh, great! You're sorry, and I'm still confused! I'm staying in my tree.
We might have somethin' worth comin' down for.
We thought we'd get every creature together for a picnic on the beach.
And we mean every creature!
Son! There you are! Your friends told us how you've been feeling.
And we're sorry if we ever made you think you had to choose between worlds. That wasn't our intention, honey.
Your Hippogriff heritage is something to be proud of, certainly.
But you're more than just where you're from or who you live with. We love you because you're you, no matter where you choose to be.
You don't have to decide. You can keep doing what you've been doing – going back and forth.
And enjoying both places.
Something we forgot to add that both places have – family and friends who love you.
Thanks for everything. Hey, uh, are you glowing?
Yes! We did it!
Congratulations! Your first map mission is a success!
Guess that means we're officially done here. I hope you come visit your sister in Equestria.
Yeah, come see us! You'll love it!
Who knows? You might even want to live there!
Yeah, that was a joke.
Princess Celestia, I have an idea for your ones-versary.
My... "ones-versary"?
The one-thousand, one-hundred, eleventh year anniversary of when you first raised the sun.
Good thing Pinkie Pie reminded us, or we would have forgot to celebrate.
You're not the only ones. What did you have in mind?
To commemorate your first sunrise, I've written a play. We'd like to perform it at my School of Friendship, if you don't mind.
[giggling happily] Mind? Oh! Of course not! Oh! I think a play is a fantastic idea!
Did she just... prance?
Oh, uh, forgive me for getting so excited. It's just, when I was a filly, my friends often put on plays. [sighs] It was so wonderful. Everypony coming together to create a magical experience to share with others. I've always believed theater brings out the best in us and forges a special bond of friendship.
[gasps] I didn't know you used to act!
Oh, not me. I was always too busy with my magic lessons to be part of any plays myself. But still, it's something I always wished I could experience.
And you still can! Princess Celestia, we would be honored if you would be the star of our play!
We would?!
You want me to star in your play?!
Yeah... When did that happen, exactly?
If you'll excuse us for a second... [whispering] Don't you see, Spike? It's perfect! Princess Celestia has always wanted to be in a play, and this one's about her!
[whispering] I guess, but how are we supposed to give her directions? She's the ruler of Equestria!
[whispering] She's also our friend. Celestia's always kind to everypony. So if we have a chance to finally do something for her, we should.
Hmmm...
[whispering] Come on. How many times has Celestia helped us? Guided us? Been a warm, calming voice over our shoulder?
Twilight.
Aah!
 Yes, Princess Celestia?
Your invitation is very kind, but are you certain it's wise? I have no acting experience at all.
Experience? Pssh! You'll be playing yourself. And we'll all help you. Please? It'd mean so much to the students if you were in our show.
Well, if you're sure...
Yeah, what she said.
Then I would be delighted to join your theater troupe!
Woo-hoo! Confetti is ready! Woo-hoo!
Puh! Wormy apple cores, Pinkie! How many times have I told you to keep your special effects away from my sets?!
Ugh.
I can't believe you've memorized your lines already, Fluttershy.
Once you get past terrifying, paralyzing stage fright, the rest is easy. Now I just hope Princess Celestia says we can do our play.
Oh, as soon as she sees these fabulous costumes, all she'll be able to say is "Brava!"
Heads up! Here comes our answer!
[panting] Wonderful news, everypony!
Yeehaw! We get to put on our show?
Even better. Princess Celestia is gonna be our star!
Yeah, that's how I felt, too.
Celestia? Starring in our play? This is huge!
Well, she was a little nervous at first, but I told her not to worry. With us helping, it will all go smooth as—
Silk! I must find the silk! If Celestia's going to be in our play, we have to take everything up to the next level! None of these old ideas will do!
Yeah! Forget my regular party cannon! For princess-sized effects, we're gonna need Big Bertha!
Grrrr...! Pinkie!
What?
Our play is gonna be amazing! I gotta tell everypony I know! And even the ones I don't!
Why in tarnation are y'all gettin' so starstruck? We've met Princess Celestia before. Plenty of times.
Those were formal things – galas, world-saving. This is different! Imagine doing sweaty warm-ups with a princess, blowing your nose in front of a princess, sitting around just... talking with a princess.
I'm a princess. You talk to me.
That's different. You're not a "princess" princess.
Uh, thanks. Celestia wants to experience the special friendship that theater ponies have. To give her that, you just need to be yourselves.
You... You really think so?
Heh. Aw, quit frettin'. It's only a couple o' pals gettin' together to put on a ones-versary play. What could go wrong?
[amplified] Places, everypony! We're here to rehearse "A New Day in Equestria"!
[amplified] Directed, written, and produced by Twilight Sparkle.
Page one, act one, scene one. Action!
Once upon a time, before Celestia, Equestria was suffering terrible hardship. Raising the sun every morning was so hard, it took five great sorcerers plus Star Swirl the Bearded to do it.
And every day, the unicorns helping Star Swirl would use so much magic, they lost their powers forever. Things looked bleak. Soon, Equestria would lose all its magic users! Then, the land would be covered in darkness for eternity!
[to Spike] Even I can't believe how good my play is! The sets, the props, the outfits – they're all great!
And... here comes the best part.
But then, a student named Celestia discovered she had the power to raise the sun herself without draining her magic!
Um, that's your cue, Celestia.
Oh! Uh, right! Of course! Heh. [clears throat] [quietly] It is time for a new day in Equestria.
Um, what?
Oh, uh, I said [quietly] it is time for a new day in Equestria.
And your delivery was... great! But maybe you should try it a tiny bit louder for the ponies in the back row.
Oh, yes, yes. My Royal Canterlot Voice. Thank you for the reminder, Twilight. [booming] It is time for a new day in Equestria!
Oh! Goodness! This theater does have strong acoustics. M-My apologies. I'm still learning to hone my craft.
No, no! You're doing... fine! Why don't we try it one more time? Just like you're talking to me.
[flat and stilted] It is time for a new day in Equestria-aaa.
A bit more energy.
[rushed and hyperactive] It's time for a new day in Equestria! [normal] Uh, how was that?
Uh, honestly?
Great! Wow! It's hard to believe you've never done this before! Let's move onto the dance number!
Again! Step, buck, leap, touch! Again! Step, buck, leap, touch! Got it? Movin' on! Five, six, seven, eight!
[with wildly varying tone] Come on, Star Swirl. Throw off that must-Y hat and let's have a... a dance!
Oh, dear. I think we have a problem!
[whispering] Yeah. Our lead actress is a disaster!
[hyperventilating] What are we gonna do?! If I tell Celestia she's terrible, it'll hurt her feelings, and I'll be a bad friend. But if I keep her in the show, she'll be the laughingstock of Equestria, and I'll be a worse friend.
Ya need to tell Celestia the truth, Twilight.
Any other suggestions?
Why don't we just cancel the show?
Real suggestions?
No, think about it. Right now, most of Equestria doesn't even know we're doing a ones-versary play. If we shut it down...
...Nopony will ever miss it!
So they'll never find out Princess Celestia's a bad actress!
And she won't be embarrassed!
Ah! It's the perfect plan!
All right! I just finished telling everypony to come to our play!
You... did?
Yeah! You should've seen how excited they got when they found out Celestia was in it! They said they'd tell their friends, and then their friends would tell their friends! Everypony in Equestria's gonna see this thing! Uh... did I miss something?
Just the bright light of hope being snuffed. But that's okay. If we can't cancel the show, I know what I have to do.
Be honest with Celestia and give the lead role to somepony else?
Not a chance!
Twilight, you know truth is a huge part of friendship.
And so is making another pony's dreams come true. Look, I promised Celestia that this time, she could be a part of the play instead of just watching it. And I plan to keep that promise.
But how?
You want to give me acting lessons?
No-no-no-no-no-no-no. More like a special workshop with other actors. To... take your performance from good to flawless.
Thank you so much, Twilight! This is what I always knew theater must be about – that special stage pony bond of shared trust and honesty.
Yeah. Heh. That's what it is. Ahem.
Princess Celestia, meet Method Mare performers On Stage and Raspberry Beret!
Avec pleasure, your Majesty!
The pleasure is all mine! If there's anything I can do to become a better Equestrian thespian, I will! What do you have planned?
I thought we'd make it up as we go along. [chuckles] Otherwise known as improvisation!
Yes, and we can start as soon as we get out of this box.
What box?
How's it going over here?
That sun will never rise again.
That's why I have something even better!
[gasps] It's the perfect substitute!
It was the perfect substitute.
Please give me something to be happy about.
Let's try visualization! And... you're skiing!
Whoosh! Whoosh! Oh, it's so snowy today! Brrr! I'm getting chilly!
Should I get you a blanket?
All aboard! The Ponyville Express is leaving the station! Whoo-whoo! Chugga-chugga-chugga-chugga...
It is? But I don't see anything.
Let's be weeping willows in the wind! We are strong in adversity yet supple as we bow to fate.
Well? What do you feel?
Mmmm... nothing. Oh! The classroom floor under my hooves! Does that count?
Do I wanna know?
Wait for it...
Pinkie Pie!
Whaaaat? It's realistic! The sun is just like a burning marshmallow!
What are they doing now?
[sighs] The simplest acting exercise they could think of – a game of charades.
A puppy! A duck-billed platypus! Antidisestablishmentarianism! Oh, I give up! What?!
My love for Equestria and all the ponies in it! Twilight, you felt what I was emoting, didn't you?
[stuttering] Yeah!
[to On Stage] Now, that's the best acting we've seen all day.
Okay! I tried and tried and tried! But we have to face facts. We can't make Celestia an actress. So there's only one thing to do!
Tell her the truth finally?
No!
I've rewritten the script to give Celestia a more artistic part with no lines.
And to make sure the show's a hit, I've whipped up the biggest, bestest, flashiest fake sun ever!
Uh, Pinkie? That looks unsafe.
Why would untested magic fireworks that I bought in a back alley from Trixie at midnight be unsafe?
Twilight, if you honestly thought I was a bad actress, why didn't you tell me?
I-I'm so sorry! I didn't mean to insult your acting! It's just, I-I got so stressed! But... that's no excuse for what I said. You have every right to be upset with me.
I'm not upset because you insulted my acting.
You're not?
I'm upset because, in all the time we've known each other, I thought I taught you about the importance of friendship, trust, and honesty!
Celestia, wait!
No!
You can't fly away now! Look!
Ponies are taking their seats for the show.
[laughs] Standing room only! Did I do a good job of advertising for this thing or what? Sorry.
We can't put on a show with no lead actress!
You go find Celestia. We'll figure out a way to stall this thing 'til you get back.
Good luck. Nopony's gonna volunteer to try to tame that.
No pony indeed.
So... [chuckles nervously] Ahem. Uh, who likes juggling?
Princess Celestia! Please wait! Can we talk?
I'm afraid I haven't much to say, Twilight.
All right then. Just listen. You've guided me since I was a filly. You've given me knowledge and advice and friendship. Just once, I wanted to be able to give something back to you. I know what I did was wrong. I should've told you the truth. But I promised you could be in our play. I had to make it work. Nothing would make me feel worse than knowing I disappointed you.
You really mean that?
Of course! I look up to you more than any pony I've ever met! I hate to let you down. Like I did.
[sighs] You had good intentions, Twilight. But you know that the truth is always better than a well-meant lie. Didn't Applejack remind you?
[sighs] About a hundred times. And now, because I didn't listen to her, I've ruined your whole ones-versary.
Well... I don't know about that. Isn't there an old saying? "The show must go on"? There may be a way for us to save the play yet.
But how? I mean, if I'm being completely honest... you're not an actress.
No. But I am a princess.
Ugh! Good news – free food. [chewing] Bad news – this play is officially a disaster.
Fortunately, I know a thing or two about how to deal with those.
You came back!
Yes. But let's celebrate later. Right now, we have a show to do!
But... but... but how?! The audience is about to riot! We have no backdrop! And our lead actress is—!
Uhhhh...
No longer in that role. Rarity, Applejack, Pinkie, Twilight, go calm the audience. Let them know the play will start in just a minute.
Rainbow Dash, bring us some clouds and place them behind the stage. There, that's our new backdrop. Starlight, do you have a copy of the script?
Spike, you narrate the play. Fluttershy will be our new lead.
Visualize with me. You're a princess. Regal. Commanding. Confident. Feel the rising sun's warmth. Equestria needs you.
Once upon a time, before Celestia, Equestria was suffering terrible hardship. Raising the sun every morning was so hard that it took five great sorcerers plus Star Swirl the Bearded to do it.
"Rainbow Stars": You call those great sorcerers?
Oh, no! Hecklers! What should we do?
[whispering] Spike! Improvise!
Y-Yes. And, uh... raising the sun each day was super draining. But you can see that for yourselves, right? I mean, do these guys look beat-up or what? Star Swirl's so stressed, he's got kinks in his horn!
But that's okay. 'Cause it turns out Celestia had a special power to raise the sun all by herself!
It's time for a new day in Equestria!
Ah! In all the commotion, we forgot we don't have a sun! What do we do?!
We play charades.
My goodness! I had no idea this production would have such elaborate special effects!
Judging by how many flowers the audience threw, it seems our play was a success.
I just feel bad you never got a chance to actually be in it.
You shouldn't. I never felt I had to be on stage to be a part of the show. All I ever wanted was to share an honest bond of creativity, artistry, and happiness with my friends. And that's exactly what I got to do.
Thank you for saving our play, Princess Celestia.
You're welcome, Twilight. But from now on, none of you will have to call me "Princess" anymore.
Huh?
Wait, what? We don't?
No. I had so much fun tonight, I've decided to give up my crown, step down from the throne, and devote all of my time to the theater!
Y-You... what?!
Gotcha! Maybe I'm not such a bad actress after all.
[clears throat] Morning, Sunburst.
What? Oh! Hi! [chuckles nervously] You know, no matter how many times I read it, Houyhnhnm's Guide to Magical Arcana never gets boring.
If you say so. I've got another letter for you. From Sire's Hollow.
Mm-hmm. Sure thing.
What's this? Could I be experiencing the cerebration transmogrification effect described in chapter seventeen—?
Oh. My cutie mark is glowing. My cutie mark is glowing! I know what this means! Why am I yelling?!
Princess Twilight, what an honor this is! I-I mean, it is, right? I'm called for a friendship mission?
You sure are. And it must be a special one. Nopony outside of Ponyville has ever been called before.
If you need some pointers, let me know. I've been on my fair share of missions.
You've been on one, Spike.
And that's my fair share.
Starlight! You mean we've both been called? This is great!
[depressed] Yeah... Great...
Aren't you excited? You and me on a mission together!
I'm... sorry. Are you not excited to go on a mission with me?
No. Uh, no! I mean, yes. Heh. Totally excited about us going together. Just... not so excited about where.
Sire's Hollow?
Yep. Home.
[deflated] Oh. Great.
You know, I can go if you two don't want to. I am kind of an expert.
[sighs] It's not that I don't want to go home. It's just that whenever I do, my dad treats me like a filly. Like nothing's changed since I was a foal.
Huh.
I know. I'm a horrible daughter.
N-No, no! My mom actually does kind of the same thing.
Really?
I don't even have to go home. She sends me letters constantly asking about my plans for the future. [imitating Stellar Flare] "You're a grown-up pony, Sunburst! You need a plan!" [sighs] I haven't been home in a while either.
Hmph. We'll just have to explain to our parents that we're on an important friendship mission so they can't bother us.
Do you really think that will work?
Nope!
[sniffs, sighs] The great thing about home is it always stays just how you le—
Augh!
Where did that come from?
Welcome to Sire's Hollow!
"Ever Essence": Essence?
Essence of what?
"Ever Essence": You tell me.
What is it?
Uh... chocolate maybe?
"Ever Essence": Not chocolate maybe. Chocolate definitely! And all of the benefits with none of the drawbacks.
Didn't this used to be a fruit stand?
"Ever Essence": I don't know what it used to be. The Sire's Hollow Development Committee determined what it is.
The Sire's Hollow Development what? Where do ponies buy fruit?
"Ever Essence": You can get a fruit smoothie two doors down.
All the shops are different. Everything's changed!
Not everything. That's the same as it ever was.
"Raspberry Latte": Sorry. Our bookstore's been declared a site of historical significance by the Sire's Hollow Preservation Society.
"Minty Mocha": You'll have to experience the books from here. That's why windows are see-through.
What?!
Preservation Society? What is happening around here?
I'll explain it to you, sugarplum! [chuckles] You are just as cutesy-wutesy as ever!
[muffled] Dad! [normally] Quit it! What is going on?
Dad, you promised no "pumpky-wumpkin"'s in public!
[whispering] Sorry, chipmunk cheeks.
Don't. You're preserving the whole town? That's crazy!
That's exactly what I told him! I said, "Firelight, you're crazy!"
Mom?
Our village needs the same thing you do, Sunburst – a clear plan for the future.
That's why I started the Sire's Hollow Development Committee. And I've got plans for this little town. Big plans!
Listen here, Stellar Flare! I'm not gonna let you turn our historical heritage into Las Pegasus!
And I'm not gonna let you turn it into a museum!
W-Wait. Are you two fighting over this?
Like having a friendship problem?
Oh, there's no problem.
Because there is no friendship!
Well, the good news is we know why we're here.
[sighs] Maybe we should've sent Spike after all.
Sunburst and I were called here to do a job, and it looks like you two are it.
You mean your success depends on us?
Uh...
And you have to hang out with us the whole time you're here?!
Um...
Well, I'll hear what you have to say. But every plan I've made for this town is perfectly reasonable.
Good luck convincing me my preservation efforts don't make sense.
Welcome to Sire's Hollow!
So we can't hold the books?
"Raspberry Latte": [laughing] No!
Can you hold the books?
"Minty Mocha": No.
So nopony can read the books?
Welcome to Sire's Hollow!
"Ever Essence": You can call them... mm... "smells". But I call them essence!
[sniffs] Fruity.
Too bad there's nowhere to get actual fruit.
In the future, all ponies will drink their fruit!
"Cracked Wheat": One hundred percent ancient pony grains! Just like the town founders ate! Hope you like crust!
Welcome to Sire's Hollow!
Welcome to Sire's Hollow!
Welcome to Sire's Hollow!
Welcome to Sire's Hollow!
Welcome to Sire's—!
Okay, it's annoying. I get it.
Maybe my preservation efforts were a little over the top.
"Cracked Wheat": [groans] Oh, no.
And I might have been trying to turn the town into a shopping mall.
Well, whatever direction the town takes from now on, how about we work together on it?
Deal! Sunburst, you should move closer to Ponyville. After this success, I'm sure the Princess of Friendship will want to send you on more missions.
That's not really how it works. Oh, look at the time! We should get going now that we solved the friendship problem, right, Starlight?
Yeah... The thing is, I don't think we did solve it. When we solve a friendship problem, our cutie marks are supposed to glow.
Aw, don't be disappointed, puddin'. Your papa will work this out for ya.
Heh. My papa wasn't called by the map in Twilight's castle. I was.
How are you gonna explain this to the princess? What's your plan if she fires you from friendship quests?
Mom! She doesn't—! It-It's not—!
Use your words, Sunburst.
I guess you two weren't the problem we were sent to solve after all.
So now you don't even know why you're here? Ah! We have to figure this out before we run out of time!
[sighs] Mom, there isn't a time limit.
So you're here for an extra long visit? [laughs] You can stay in your old room, punkie wunk! It's just like you left it!
[whispering] We need to find this friendship problem now!
Now, I know you have your little job to do, but Stellar and I know the town a lot better than you two.
That's right! Neither of you have been home in ages. You're gonna need our help to succeed!
I guess that makes sense...
I already have some ideas!
Me, too!
I think I liked it better when they were fighting.
Okay! Now that I've explained how Sire's Hollow was founded, we can start to explore all the possible friendship problems that might have developed over time.
[inhales] I appreciate the history lesson, Dad, but I need to find the problem now. In the present.
Aw, now, hon-bun. How are you gonna do that without all the backstory, huh? Oh! Of course I know how hard it is for you to sit still and focus, soooo... would it help you pay attention to hold on to your bwankie?
Now, you've had a little setback. But don't worry. I know exactly what you need to do.
Make a plan?
Already got one! Step one – interview the suspects. Step two – use your talents to solve the issue. Step three – get the Princess of Friendship to send you on more missions!
Mom! It does not work like that!
Uh-huh.
"Ever Essence": [poorly acted] Oh! Thank goodness you are here! These two ponies refuse to use my essences.
"Raspberry Latte": Maybe because we don't like to cover our natural scent!
"Ever Essence": Ugh.
"Raspberry Latte": Ugh.
"Minty Mocha": [sighs] [poorly acted] And she refuses to buy our books.
"Ever Essence", "Raspberry Latte", and "Minty Mocha": [poorly acted] Surely this is a friendship problem.
This is what happens when we don't rehearse! Ugh!
Starlight? Sweetie? I found a really old town bylaw that nopony agrees on. Apparently, we're not supposed to prance or canter after dinnertime. Could that be the problem? Silly-filly?
Whew! What are you doing?
[sighs] Hiding from my mother. She started making up friendship problems for me to solve.
[scoffs] My dad won't even let me talk to anypony in case they're "strangers". I'm a grown mare!
[sighs] We're never going to find the friendship problem with them around, let alone solve it.
[whispering] Okay! So we wanted to talk to all of you, you know, in private.
[whispering] Just to see if there were issues any of you had with your friends.
"Ever Essence": [whispering] Got it. Just one question. Why are we whispering?
"Cracked Wheat": They're avoiding their parents.
No. Not avoiding. Just... taking a break.
Yeah. We needed to focus. B-But we're definitely not avoiding them.
"Raspberry Latte": So you're whispering with all of us in the darkest corner of the shop where nopony can possibly see because you're not avoiding them?
Mm-hmm.
Uh, but they definitely can't hear us in here, right?
"Cracked Wheat": No way! This is the antiquities section. Nopony ever comes back here.
There you are! But what are you doing in here? [gasps] Is the friendship problem in my favorite section of the bookstore?
...And then, I thought the best way to look for a friendship problem in the present...
Dad!
...was to look back in our town history even farther!
Sunburst! Oh, finally! Now, I know you don't want me to make up a problem, but what if I start one?
That's not how this—!
I mean, nopony ever became a success by following all the rules, right?
[to Firelight] How are things on your end?
Couldn't be better! New leads and such!
Guys...?
We really are providing excellent assistance, aren't we?
Guys!
I dare say our children should be grateful for our help.
Guys!
We don't want your help!
I'm sorry. You don't want our help?
[chuckles] That's... That's ridiculous! What reason could you possibly have for that?
Because you're driving us crazy!
Oh, really? And just how am I driving you crazy?
By always coming up with plans! I don't need a plan! I mean, maybe I do, but it'll be mine, not yours!
And you're not any better! I'm not a filly! I'm a grown pony with a job to do, and I'll do it on my own!
Well. I'll let you get to it then.
Great. Now we have to smooth things over with our parents on top of finding and solving a friendship problem.
It's almost like our relationship with our parents is the friendship problem.
You don't think that's it, do you?
"Cracked Wheat": [clears throat] That's what all of us think.
[groans, collapses] Why couldn't we have been sent to stop a war or something?!
Dad?
Hello, Ms. Glimmer. How is your friendship problem search going? I only ask as an interested observer, since I know you are an adult who's capable of doing things without help from anypony else.
Actually... I think Sunburst and I figured out what it is.
So Stellar and I weren't really helpful after all.
Well, we haven't actually solved it. And I don't think we can. Not without you.
[coughing] Pungent. Ugh. [to Sunburst] Oh. Did you come by to be driven crazy by more of your mother's plans?
No, I came to apologize.
Well, it's going to take more than an apology to make up for telling me you don't want my help finding your friendship problem.
Oh, I'm not sorry for that. Starlight and I already figured out what the problem is.
This is a terrible apology.
Well, if you come with me and help fix it, I'll give you a better one.
Usually, Twilight or one of our other friends gets called to a place with a friendship problem to fix.
But Starlight and I realized we came here to fix a friendship problem we already had.
I'm sorry I've been avoiding coming home, Dad. But you can't keep treating me like a foal.
I'm sorry, sugarbun. [sighs] I just know how hard things were for you when you left home. I guess I wanted you to feel safe, like... when you were young.
Dad, I know I've made some mistakes, and I'll probably make a bunch more. But I learn from them. I think that's what growing up is.
I'm sorry I never told you how much your plans bothered me, and I know you just want me to succeed. But I need to do that on my own.
I remember how lost you were when you flunked out of magic school. I thought as long as you had a plan, you'd never feel that way again.
You don't have to worry, Mom. I need to find my own way. And I definitely don't feel lost anymore.
"Cracked Wheat": [crying] That's so beautiful!
The glowing cutie mark is such a symbol of accomplishment. I don't suppose there's a way for you to get it to glow all the time.
[chuckles] Pretty sure it doesn't work that way.
Not unless we solved a friendship problem every few seconds, and I kinda hope this one will be it for a while.
You know, it seems to me your map is saying we're not just your parents. Heh. We're your friends, too.
I guess so.
So if I promise to treat you less like a little filly and more like a friend, will you visit more?
Absolutely. Mmm.
And if you start to drive me crazy again, I'll tell you instead of never coming home.
That's lovely of you to say, dear. But you know, I can always visit you.
Stellar, you're a genius! [laughs] How do you feel about a road trip?
I might have a few plans for that.
Huh?
Whoa!
Did I miss the Teacher of the Month announcement?
You're just in time. But it's gonna be me.
Yeah, right. I got this one nailed.
And the Friendship School Teacher of the Month is... Fluttershy!
[groans] Again?
Come on!
Oh, my! I don't know how I keep winning.
Yeah. Me, neither.
The award is based on the students' vote. They must really like you.
Congratulations, Fluttershy!
Next item of business – I've been looking into a new activity for our friendship classes. Spike?
Section one-forty-seven, paragraph two states that teamwork is a key part of friendship. And section two-two-nine, paragraph nine says outdoor activity reinforces learning. Add that together, and what do you get?
Ooh, ooh! Okay, let me see. One-forty-seven, two-twenty-nine, carry the two... Three hundred and eighty-seven?
Mm-mm. A teamwork field trip. Leading it is a Teacher of the Month-type job, so I thought I'd ask—
I'm your pony, Twilight! Sweet Apple Acres has taught me a thing or two about workin' together.
Yeah, but being a Wonderbolt's the definition of teamwork.
[chuckles] I'm sure you're not sayin' fancy flyin' makes ya a better choice than me.
[chuckles] I wouldn't say "better". Just a little more qualified. No offense.
Maybe you can lead the field trip together.
Of course! Who better to model the importance of working as a team?
Um, Rarity? Fluttershy? Me? Spike? This flowerpot?
Both of you are teamwork experts. If the students see the two of you teaching together, they'll learn even more. I know you've been competitive in the past, but I'm sure you'd never let that get in the way of friendship education.
Of course!
Totally!
I've never been on a field trip before.
Yeah, what's the point of this exactly?
Getting out of the classroom. Duh.
[chuckles] Pretty sure the headmare has something else in mind.
All right, class. Today you'll learn how important working together is for building a strong friendship.
Hey, y'all! Ready to get out there and do some learnin' the Apple family way?
This is basically gonna be the best field trip in the history of ever! With me in charge, that is. Whoa!
[chuckles nervously] With us in charge. Meanin' mostly me.
Yeah. Good one.
And what teamwork activity do you two have planned for today?
No... way. We get to do both?!
I bet that's exactly what your teachers had in mind. Why don't you start with shed building first?
Heh. Don't mind if I do! Everycreature, follow the leader!
I'll check in later to see how it's going. Remember to work together!
[deep inhale] Now take a good, deep breath. What do you smell?
[inhale] Uh, yak?
[sniffing] Mm-hmm!
Nope. Try again.
Um, apples?
And...? Anyone? Anyone? No? The promise of... teamwork! That there's an apple shed. And this here is what we're gonna use to build it. Nothin' brings friends together like a little hard work and honest sweat.
[laughing] Sweat? Seriously? That's supposed to be part of friendship?
Not everypony would know that, Rainbow Dash. Just "Teacher of the Month" kind o' ponies.
Whatever. Let's just get this done so we can move on to my activity.
That's it! Measure twice and cut once! Haste makes waste! Slow and steady!
Emphasis on the slow.
Rainbow Dash! Ya can't build an apple shed like that!
[scoffs] Oh, yeah? I just did!
Whoa! No way!
Whoa!
Impressive... if you can call an apple shed impressive.
Just 'cause it's fast don't mean it's good!
Don't count your pictures before they're snapped, Rainbow Dash.
Oh, come on! These students are totally gonna vote for a teacher who gets things done!
No! They're gonna vote for a teacher who gets things done right!
Yeah... This isn't awkward at all...
Steady... Steady... Take 'er nice and slow...
Little to the left...
Uh, a hair to the right...
Now, a hoof shavin' higher...
[growls] Just bring it down already!
I'll give ya one guess whose side is still standin'.
[chuckles nervously] Uh...
Um, professors? I'm a little confused about teamwork now.
That's because you need a different teacher. Follow me! Last one to the stream is a rotten apple shed!
Who's ready to smash the all-time Equestria speed record for river canoeing?!
Is that even a thing?
First I've heard of it.
We need to get to the finish line before this alarm goes off. That means you gotta move fast! Any questions?
Uh, Yona has questions.
No time for 'em! Get in the boat!
You really think winnin' some canoein' record is gonna get you that Teacher of the Month trophy?
I'm pretty sure everycreature's gonna like it a lot better than pounding nails and cutting wood.
Yak not like water.
Sometimes, when I'm scared to try something new, I whistle.
We got you, Yona.
Way I see it, Twilight's gonna give that teachin' trophy to a teacher, not a racer.
We'll see about that.
Stroke! Stroke! Stroke! Harder! Put your backs into it, newbies!
Stroooooke... Stroooooke... Stroooooke... Slower... Focus on your paddle technique, y'all.
Woo-hoo! We're really going now!
So... when do we get to the part when we move?
When everycreature starts listening to me, the leader of my activity, Applejack! Now stroke!
Dig in, team! We can still beat that record!
Stop!
Go!
Which way do we go?
Left!
Right!
Aye-aye, captains! Wait, what?
Left! I can see the finish line from here!
If we go left, we'll be headin' straight into the bite-acuda fish!
Who cares about a few fish?
Uh, professors?
You'll care plenty when they bite ya!
Guys?
We'll just go around them!
Rock!
I love field trips!
I hope you're happy.
[scoffs] Obviously not! Because there goes our new speed record!
[panicked whistling, coughing] Help! Yak not swim!
That's okay! Your friends can change into creatures that do!
How's the canoeing... going?
About as good as the apple shed building.
I totally had things under control until Applejack messed 'em up!
I did not!
Did too!
Did not!
Yup. It's been like this all day.
I wouldn't say all day. Just... ninety-nine percent of it.
I can't believe this! You're not teaching teamwork! You're competing with each other! I thought you were past that!
We are! Mostly.
We got carried away with wantin' to be the Teacher of the Month is all.
The Teacher of the Month wouldn't care about being the Teacher of the Month! I know Fluttershy would be thrilled to see another pony win. That's it! I'm taking over this field trip!
H-Hold up, Twilight. Don't count Rainbow Dash for the award just yet. You shoulda seen her fire up those students to build a shed.
No way! You're the one the students listen to. Besides, you saved us from those pony-eating fish.
Uh, long story. But Applejack should definitely be Teacher of the Month.
Hmmm... Maybe you two have learned something, after all.
Field trip?
Well...
Come on, Twilight. We get it. No more arguing. Right, Applejack?
Right as rain and twice as fresh!
Fine. But I'm picking the next activity you two lead. A nature walk. Nopony could possibly argue over that. Right?
Right!
See? We're agreein' already.
Well, look at that. The path splits up ahead. Left or right?
Ugh. Here we go again.
Where to, Rainbow Dash?
I was thinking right... unless you want to go left. Because what makes you happy makes me happy.
Aw, heck. Forget about me. You want to go right, we'll go right.
But teamwork means listening to other ponies, so it's up to you.
Well, aren't you as sweet as sugar apple pie? But it's up to you.
Ugh! Follow me! Yak know best way!
Hey! Where are y'all goin'?
I think we've gone in the same circle five times.
Only because someponies won't make up their minds about which way to go.
Do you want to keep going in a circle, Applejack?
Up to you, Rainbow Dash. I insist.
[chuckles] No, no. I insist.
Heh. But I insisted first.
Are we still on a field trip? 'Cause this just feels like being lost.
Ugh.
We can still get back to school before dark if we cross that ravine and stop doubling back.
We knew that. All part of our plan. Right, Applejack?
Uh, yup! All we have to do is, uh... build a bridge 'cross that, uh, giant canyon, and we're home free. That is, if-if you think a bridge is a good idea.
Only if you want to build a bridge.
Stop! Listen. We can just fly everyone over and be done.
Nope! There's still plenty o' time to teach y'all a lesson in teamwork.
Cooperation!
Togetherness!
You are so right!
Only as right as you are!
Okay! We'll build a bridge! What do we use?
I'm goin' with your idea! Vines! No buts about it!
I-I'm building with your idea! Branches! End of story!
[muffled] Why use a branch when you can use a vine? [grunting] Whoa!
Why didn't I think of branches to begin with? They're so— [yelping] ...easy to work with.
[muffled] Come on now... [grunting] These here vines are just the thing, Rainbow Dash!
[screaming] Help!
Uh, at least now they're agreeing on something.
[grunting] I can't get out!
Let me guess. Bite-acudas?
Mm-hmm.
And they look mighty hungry.
We gotta get our professors out of there! Anycreature have a plan?
Leave 'em hangin'?
What?!
I'm kidding! ...Kinda.
We need to work fast! And together!
But mainly fast.
I hate to admit it, but—
...this whole mess is kinda our fault.
Yeah. No trophy is worth getting eaten over.
So what do ya say? You want to team up and get ourselves out of this here pickle barrel?
I thought you'd never ask.
Aah! Don't worry. I'm just the distraction.
Ocellus?!
[sighs] You nearly scared the cutie marks off us!
Need a lift?
Welcome back, professors!
Now, that was a rescue!
And y'all did it together!
No big. Those fish weren't even a thing.
[chuckles] Oops. Sorry.
[giggles] Best... field trip... ever!
Huh? How was the field trip? What did you all learn?
Uhhhh...
Yak learn ponies smart!
Yeah! Professors Applejack and Rainbow Dash were such good teachers!
It was kind of crazy genius. They showed us what not to do so we'd figure out what we should do.
Really...?
It took us a while to get it.
Especially at the ravine. It would've been so much easier to just fly home.
But instead, our professors built bridges the wrong way just to show us how important teamwork is.
Yeah. That was super dangerous. Talk about commitment.
We know it's too early to pick the Teacher of the Month. But we'd like you to consider Rainbow Dash and Applejack.
Thank you for telling me. I'm so glad to hear your field trip was a success. I'll make sure to schedule another one right away.
[to Rainbow Dash and Applejack] You were actually just competing the entire time, weren't you?
To tell you the truth... yeah.
Well, not all the time. I agreed with you for the whole nature walk.
Only 'cause you were anglin' for that Teacher of the Month award!
You were the one doing the "angling"!
[scoffs] You were more like fandanglin'!
You said it, Big Mac. This is taking forever! I know it's wrong to cut corners when it comes to gifts from the heart, but this is an emergency, right?
Eeyup.
Discord? A little help? Discord!
Yeah? Oh! Good idea! [clears throat] Captain Wuzz! Are you prepared to enter the world of Ogres & Oubliettes?
Huzzah, fellow adventurers! Shall we storm the ramparts of Squizard's castle to reclaim Calico's Ring of Imperceptibility?
You did summon me for a rousing Guys' Night of Ogres & Oubliettes, did you not?
Uh, sort of. But do you think you could magically hurry up this pie real quick first?
You seem to be mixing up [poof!] the Lord of Chaos [poof!] with a second-rate clown magician for hire.
Eee... wait!
This needs to go in the mail today, or it'll never get to Sugar Belle in time for Hearts and Hooves Day!
Please. Can't you see that that holiday is a commercialized ruse pushed on you by the greeting card industry?
Keep your eye on the pie. [à la Doug Henning] It's magic time!
[sniffing] This smells... uh... palatable.
Well, pies really are Sugar Belle's thing. But I think that makes this all the more special. It shows you're interested in what she cares about.
Eeyup!
And he's planning a big romantic Hearts and Hooves dinner. It was my idea to bake the invitation inside.
[reading] "Happy Hearts and Hooves Day, Sugar Belle. Meet me in my barn at sunset for a surprise."
Pretty clever, huh?
Awww. "Sugar Belle". See?
Well, you two certainly have bought into this romance nonsense hook, line, and sinker.
For a formerly friendless immortal despot, you're pretty cynical.
I'm a realist. And love, like all things warm and fuzzy, isn't real.
Aw, come on. You act tough, but deep down, you're a softie. I mean, you don't have tea with Fluttershy every weekend because you like tea.
But I do like tea! Every tea! All the teas! Chamomile, Earl Grey, green, white, yellow, mate, lemon, ginger, chai, spearmint, peppermint, hibiscus... [inhale] ...cinnamon, pumpkin spice.
Tell you what. While Big Mac mails his incredibly romantic gesture, I'll show you the splendors of Hearts and Hooves Day in Ponyville. I bet I can prove you believe in love.
Fine. Call it a gentleman's wager. Loser mows my lawn for eternity.
Is it, like, a riding mower or...?
Tweezers!
Hear ye, hear ye! This special Hearts and Hooves Day meetin' of the Cutie Mark Crusaders is now in session! First order of business – helpin' my big brother decorate the barn for his big date with Sugar Belle tonight, and... Hello?
It seems like everypony's got somepony special but us.
When's it gonna be our turn?
Huh?
Huh?
[gasps] Who's it from?
Can't tell. It's all smudged, but it looks like it's addressed to... "Belle"? Hmmm...
[gasps] "Sweetie Belle"!
Somepony certainly went through a lot of trouble for me! On Hearts and Hooves Day!
[gasps] You don't think...
Could it be...?
Hang on a minute. Mysterious package, smudged address, no idea who it's from... Hm. I know what this is. You've got a secret admirer!
[sighs] Another Hearts and Hooves Day. Love is in the air, Discord. Look at all these happy couples.
How can they be happy if they aren't playing Ogres & Oubliettes?
As a great dragon poet once wrote to his beloved, "I love you with the utmost clarity. I love you, dear. My sweet, sweet Rarity—" Are you even listening?!
 Of course. "Love is... something-something, and Discord is great." I don't know. Can we play O&O now?
Sure, after you admit you believe in love and... Sugar Belle!
Big Mac's girlfriend. What's she doing in town so early?
Mrs. Well, Sugar Belle, I'm sure Big Mac won't be expecting it.
[gasps] She's planning her own romantic surprise for Big Mac? What if she goes to Sweet Apple Acres before Big Mac's ready with his surprise? We've gotta warn him!
[singing] ...ffle, cookin' a souffle...
Aah!
Whoa!
[slurring] Mig Bac... Mig Bac...! [groans] I mean, Big Mac! We just saw Sugar Belle! She's at Sugarcube Corner! But I think she's on her way over here now! You gotta keep her away from here until the barn's finished!
[gasps] Eeyup!
I wonder what she has planned for him.
Aah!
Ugh! Will you warn me next time you do that?
Ohhhh. She hasn't seen him yet. Take note, Discord. This is what love is all about.
"Spike – Love is about spying in the bushes."
Make fun of me all you want. But look at Big Mac's face and tell me you don't believe in love.
I hope he'll be okay without me.
Oh. Hey. We're just... not spying—
Hush!
I mean, he has been on his own before. So he'll be fine, right? [sighs] How should I tell Big Mac tonight? "You won't need to come visit me in my village anymore"? "We need to talk."
Mrs. Just be honest with him.
You're right. Okay! "We're finished."
You're right. She did surprise him.
Ugh.
Okay. Things seem bad. Maybe they're really not. Maybe "we're finished" was about the day. Ponies say that, right? Like-like, "Hey, remember yesterday? That's finished, 'cause it's today!"
Maybe not that. Oh, I know! Maybe Sugar Belle has a wacky cousin who's never been on his own, and she has to leave him in charge of her shop while she apprentices with Mrs. Cake, who does that, like, two days a week. N-No, no, three. That's why she won't need you to come to her village anymore, because... she'll already be here!
Nah. I don't even buy that one.
Oh, I hate seeing you like this, Big Mac. And over a girl, no less. I'm calling an emergency Guys' Night [poof!] right now to cheer you up.
Class is now in session.
Lesson one – nothing can break your heart if you only love yourself. You've got to show everypony that you're too cool to be bothered with so-called love. Observe.
This is how cool guys lean against things. When you see a guy leaning against a thing looking this cool, you think, "Wow! That guy doesn't have a care in Equestria. Not a guy who leans on things that cool."
I don't think leaning's gonna help. Am I doing it right? Whoa!
We're not like you, Discord. We can't put on a front and pretend not to love. It's impossible.
Lesson two – plenty of ponies in the pasture. Right, Big Mac? I know just the gal to make you forget all about Sugar Belle.
You... said... her... [wailing] naaaaaaame!
Okay. We finished decoratin' the barn for Big Mac, which means we got the rest of the day to ourselves. There's a whole town of possible admirers out there and only three of us. But together, we're gonna get to the bottom of this! Ready? Break! Excuse me! Pipsqueak? Mind answerin' a few questions? No? Late for somethin'? Are you Sweetie Belle's secret admirer?!
[to Button Mash] Excuse me! I'm doing a research survey about sending pie in the mail anonymously. Would you say you're pro-that or anti-that?
[to Snips and Snails] Happy Hearts and Hooves Day! Did you boys happen to send any packages to me recently? It's okay to say no! I won't be offended! [whispering] Please say no, please say no, please say no.
Wow. You're really going all out to cheer up Big Mac. I'm impressed.
Yes, yes, I'm amazing. Anyway, since we're in the neighborhood, care for a quick game of Ogres & Oubliettes? Like I've been wanting to play all week?!
I take it back.
I'm helping our friend first and foremost. See for yourself.
I think he's showing her a picture of Sugar Belle.
What?
And now he's crying.
No-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no. No, he's not. Let me see that.
Don't touch it! I'm looking!
Give me that!
Cut it out! Discord, quit it!
She used to do this thing where her-her nose would wrinkle when she laughed. Right there, in that hole where your nose used to be. I never told her how much I loved wrinkle-nose cutie-face... [wailing] and now I never will!
Okay. I think we've had enough of the aloof master of chaos remedies for a broken heart. You know what I do when I have a problem too big to solve? I hide from it! When she can't find you, she'll realize how much she misses you. Plus, if she can't find you, she can't break up with you.
Eeyup. Hup!
Ha!
[sighs] I don't get it. We asked every stallion in Ponyville.
[groans] There's gotta be somepony we're missin'. Somepony obvious. Somepony right in front of our noses.
Oh, well. At least the barn's looking great for Big Mac's date.
Too bad there won't be a date.
Sugar Belle is so lucky to have a non-secret admirer like Big Mac.
Well, she certainly doesn't seem to have appreciated it.
I bet she's gonna take one look at this barn and say, "What did I ever do to deserve this?"
[whispering] Yes, what did she do to deserve this?
She broke my heart.
Well, not yet, technically. In fact, she can't break your heart if you break hers first.
[angrily] Eeyup!
Thanks for the tour of Ponyville, Mrs. Cake.
Mrs. Oh, my pleasure.
I'm off to surprise Big Mac with the news. Imagine the look on his face when I tell him, "We need to talk."
Mrs. Oh, dear me, no! I told you, don't say it that way or he'll think you're breaking up with him.
Break up with him? Never! Why, without my favorite delivery pony, I couldn't imagine being happy ever again. He knows that.
He's a good listener, that pony. I promise you, no mix-ups.
Ah! Big Mac!
Sugar Belle... we need to talk.
I know why you're here.
You do?
But I have somethin' to tell you first.
Oh, can I go first? I'm gonna be—
Stop.
Oh. Why don't we tell each other on three? One—
It's over!
What's over?
You and me. It's over.
Ah... What?
We're breakin' up!
I... don't understand. Why are you breaking up with me? And why are you leaning like that?
I... don't know!
Big Mac, please. Talk to me.
I... You... [loud groan] This is why I don't like talkin'! Words can hurt! Words hurt! Goodbye, Sugar Belle!
Big Mac! Oh, thank goodness! You gotta help us with this.
Ugh. Dude, how long have you been not hiding?
Oh. I should probably have said something.
Y'all should go.
Did ya...? Did she...? Are ya...?
Big Mac, what's goin' on? Where's Sugar Belle?
Just go!
But we worked so hard on this chart. I think we've almost cracked it. If you could just—
Not right now!
But I can't stand having a secret admirer who's too scared to tell me who he is!
Maybe he doesn't like talkin'!
But that doesn't make any sense!
Maybe he used to talk too much, and it only ever got him into trouble!
[sighs] What if you're right, Discord? What if love isn't real at all?
I'm sorry, Sweetie Belle. I'm just mad, and I'm takin' it out on you.
That's okay. I bet it felt good to get it out though.
Actually, it did. Tellin' you how I felt just then... I gotta go!
Big Mac! Where are ya goin'?
I gotta talk to Sugar Belle!
Discord, you gotta use your magic and...! Guess you have better things to do. Big Mac's gonna need a miracle.
Oh. All the rotten luck...
Caught ya just in time! We both know I don't like to say much, but I'm gonna say somethin' now. [sighs] Even though I'm hurtin', I wouldn't trade this feelin' for anythin'. Because it'd mean givin' up the good times we had, too. I only broke up with you because you were gonna break up with me. I respect your decision, and you should know you'll always be in my heart.
I didn't want to break up with you.
But... you said you didn't need me to visit anymore. You said I'm gonna be on my own. I-I heard you said "we're finished" when I was hidin' in the bushes.
That sounds worse than it is.
Oh, Big Mac! I was talking about my cousin! I have this wacky cousin who's never been on his own, but I have to let him run my shop on weekends. Which is why you won't be delivering to my village anymore because I'll already be here apprenticing with Mrs. Cake, who does that two days a week. No, three.
Wait 'til I tell Spike!
I'd never break up with you! I suppose there's a lesson here somewhere about communication, talking instead of assuming, or eavesdropping is wrong. Wouldn't you say?
Eeeeyup!
Hee-hee. Wrinkle-nose cutie-face. [kisses] You must've been awful confused at my breakin' up with you after you got my pie.
What pie?
You didn't get the pie I sent?
Mm-mm.
Or the invitation?
Uh-uh.
Well, in that case... allow me to escort you to a Hearts and Hooves Day surprise!
Mind if we join ya?
[chomp] [reading] "Happy Hearts and Hooves Day, Sugar Belle. Meet me—"
Sugar Belle?!
You have got to be pulling our hooves!
It was all a mix-up?!
Oh, it's funny. I've been sitting here feeling sorry for myself for not having a special pony on Hearts and Hooves Day. But remembering all the fun we had, I think I have two special ponies – my two best friends.
Awwwww...
[sighs] And so ends another Hearts and Hooves Day. Despite a bumpy start... and middle... and ending... lot of bumps today... love was in the air.
So was confusion, apparently, and a fair number of assumptions.
But you have to admit, after seeing everything Big Mac went through, love is a hundred percent real.
Seriously?! Discord, come on! I can't believe you!
Who do you think broke Sugar Belle's wagon wheel?
Ta-da! Happy Hearts and Hooves Day!
You old softie. [laughs] I knew you had a heart.
Calico's Ring of Imperceptibility isn't going to reclaim itself, you know.
Ogres & Oubliettes? I thought you'd never ask! Oh, and... just wondering. No biggie, but... is Skellinore gonna be there?
Spike, she's an imaginary one-dimensional paper cutout skeleton.
Well, nopony's perfect.
I do appreciate you showing me the way to the phoenix nests, Spike.
Anything for you, Rarity. Besides, I've been meaning to visit Peewee.
He really was an excellent pet. I can't imagine why you set him free.
Phoenixes aren't meant to be domesticated. Even in the wild, they like to keep to themselves.
Well, they are beautiful. A few of their feathers will add just the right splash of color to my latest— Spike! What are you doing?
Uh, nothing!
Is there something wrong with your face?
[sighs] It's a stone scale. It isn't magical or anything like the call of the Dragon Lord. It's just... red. And itchy. [groans] And embarrassing.
Ooh, precious pants, that does look uncomfortable. But even I get the odd blemish from time to time. It's nothing to be embarrassed by. You could pay Zecora a visit. She makes a cream that works wonders. Just don't get the shampoo.
There's Peewee's parents! But I don't see Peewee.
Oh, maybe he moved out. Everypony has to leave the nest at some point.
Peewee!
Perhaps you should pay Zecora a visit sooner rather than later.
[sighs] I don't want anypony else to see this. Besides, I'm sure it'll clear up after a good night's sleep.
I can't believe you're still asleep!
It's nearly noon, and you promised to help me with my lecture for class today!
Noon? Whoa! I slept like a rock! Which reminds me – all that sleep probably cleared up my stone scale!
[gasps] Um, on second thought... [chuckles nervously] You can go back to sleep if you want.
Spike, what are you doing?
Hiding from my hideous face!
I'm sure it feels terrible, but it's just a breakout. It's not the end of the world.
I used to get terrible breakouts any time I had a final exam with Celestia. Who probably never had a blemish her whole life.
Well, I'm not in magic school.
No, but these things can be stress-related. And you did spend yesterday with Rarity.
[chuckles nervously] What could possibly be stressful about that?
[groans] You could try Zecora. She makes a cream that—
Fine. But you're still gonna help me practice my lecture.
[clears throat] The element of generosity and its importance in relation to the other Elements of Harmony—
[gasps] My lecture!
...indigestion. I'm so sorry!
[sighs] It's okay. I'm sure I can rewrite the lecture from my notes. I have a lot.
I can help you with—
Maybe you should leave the castle after all. And go somewhere less... flammable?
Hey there, not handsome.
[singsongy] Oh, Spike! My, what a fetching ensemble you put together. Very noir-esque. [giggles] I believe Shadow Spade herself would approve.
Uh, thanks.
But I wonder if you wouldn't mind taking it off.
Sorry, you'll have to speak up. My ears are a little bit clogged or something. It's just that I absolutely must have a model for my phoenix feather dress, and nopony else is available.
Sorry, Rarity, but I... I am super busy all day giving... tours of the school!
Really? I thought I was giving tours today. Guess not. Free day! Whee! Woo-hoo!
Classrooms are that way. [groans] Dorms are that way. [groans] Twilight's office is up there. This is a fountain.
[panting] Could you slow down a bit? We've come a long way to see the school, and I don't wanna miss anything.
Oh. Um, yeah. [wincing, scratching] Sorry.
I-Is something wrong?
Uh, do all the dragons at this school suffer from scale issues?
[low voice] I don't know.
What?
[low voice, straining] I don't... know!
I-I'm sorry, did-did you say "firework show"?
[echoing] This is the school library! It's one of the most serene spots on campus, where students can spend time in quiet reflection or study! What?!
Could you please stop shouting? We're trying to do our homework, and it's kind of distracting.
[loud voice] Was I shouting?!
If you're trying to hide, you need to do a better job. All I had to do was follow the smoke.
[low voice, straining] Leave me alone!
What?
[low voice, straining] Leave! Me! Alone!
I can't under... Was that "sleeves made of foam"?
[laughs] Wow! I have seen some pretty bad molts in my time, but yours takes the cake!
Molts?
The molt? Super painful stone scales, fire burps, uncontrollable volume shifts? It's all part of growing up dragon. Congrats!
Oh. Sorry.
No-no-no-no-no. The last time I grew up, I turned into a giant greedy monster.
Greed-induced bigness. That's totally different. The molt is completely normal. Every dragon goes through it. Pretty soon, you'll leave and strike out on your own.
Why would I do that?
Have you been living with ponies your whole life?
Uh-huh.
Oh. Well, in the Dragon Lands, a molter's loved ones kicks them out at the first stone scale.
What? Why?
I think it's biological. We call it the "molt effect". I haven't even told you about the smell.
Smell? [sniffs] Ugh!
Yeah. I mean, I love my brother and all, but one whiff, and I was all "See ya!" [sniffs] Speaking of which...
Wait! Does the molt effect happen to ponies too? [gasps] Twilight already asked me to leave the castle today. If she kicks me out, where am I gonna live? I'm too young to grow up!
I'm sure you'll find a nice...
...hoard of gems to guard or a village to terrorize. Oh, now that dragons and ponies are friends, I guess that's off the table.
So no creature's gonna wanna be around me?
Oh, I didn't say that. That molt stench is a magnet for predators. Tatzlwurms, hydras, rocs...
Dragons are scared of rocks?
R-O-C-S. Rocs? Humongous birds of prey that can snack on a molting dragon like candy!
[low voice] So Twilight's kicking me out, and the only creatures who don't find me disgusting want to eat me?
Seriously, I heard none of that.
[loud voice] Twilight's kicking me out, and the only creatures who don't find me disgusting want to eat me?!
Congrats!
[shouting] Hey! Is this the shouting closet?! Because I've got a free day, and I'm totally up for some shouting! [sniffs] [normal voice] Also, where's that brussel-sprouts-covered-in-cotton-candy smell coming from? Because it is really interesting.
I didn't know where else to go. I can't take the chance that Twilight will kick me out. You aren't feeling any molt effects, are you?
[nose plugged] When it comes to breakouts, I've seen all circumstances. But as with the molt smell... let's not take any chances.
[scratches, sighs] Is there anything you can do to cure me?
The ailments you have aren't something to cure. The molt's a condition that dragons endure.
[scratches] But if anypony sees or smells me right now, they'll be so grossed out, they'll avoid me forever!
Perhaps we can lessen this strange molt effect. The smell is the most likely cause, I suspect.
[low voice] It's all so embarrassing.
I know you are speaking, but I can't hear a thing. Are you talking about teaching asparagus to sing?
[low voice] I said it's [loud voice] embarrassing!
If the goal is to not have your friends all depart, perhaps your volume is where we should start.
Zecora! Hello? Are you there?
[loud voice] I can't let Rarity see me like this! Please don't let her know I'm here!
[loudly] Oh, dear! I'm talking even louder than I thought, aren't I?!
I have volume concerns today by the scores. But it seems that I'm ready to help you with yours.
[loudly] Eh, I-I'm sorry?! I can't seem to hear anything! I was hoping you could help! I have no idea what happened! One minute, I was sewing phoenix feathers onto a dress, and the next I couldn't hear my own voice!
Ah, the feathers of that bird can affect ponies' ears. It's a magic ailment I've treated for years.
[loudly] I only know you're talking 'cause your mouth is going up and down. [sighs, sniffs, coughs] [normal volume] Oh, goodness! I hope that incredibly pungent odor belongs to some sort of magical curative. [loudly] I hope you're not busy, but I must have my hearing back! It turns out that I talk to myself while I sew, and without that conversation, I simply can't think!
It's a simple cure, and the directions are clear. Just one or two drops in each of your ears.
[sighs, normal volume] Oh, thank you. You're an ear saver. [loudly] Oh, and while I am here, do you have any blemish cream?! Spike is having some scale issues!
[loud voice] You have no idea!
[gasps, normal voice] I think I heard something! [loudly] Your cure is working already!
The cream that you want is just over here. It's a popular potion for all creatures this year.
[sighs, normal voice] Thank you, Zecora.
[loudly] I don't mean to be rude, but I do think your hut could use an airing out!
Rarity's gone. There's no need to hide. [sniffs, groans] Though I wonder if we should continue outside. Can't treat your symptoms down there on the ground. It's safe to come out. There's no ponies around.
I'm not hiding from ponies. I'm hiding from that!
Did I forget to mention the molt smell attracts predators?
That's something that would've been quite nice to know! But it's not worth discussing right now! We should go!
Okay, maybe this wasn't a good plan.
Oh, Spike. What are you doing here?
Rarity! You have to get out of here! There's a giant roc trying to eat me! It's got Zecora!
Yes, what? [loudly] I was just at Zecora's, but I'm heading back! I can't read these instructions! Does this say "two drops once a day" or "one drop twice a day"?!
Rarity, there's no time! We have to get help!
[loudly] Yes, my ears are completely clogged! Why, Spike! Your stone scales look worse! Oh, here! I picked up just the thing. Ah—
Oh, I wish you'd escaped either claw of this bird! But the both of us trapped in the same one's absurd!
[loudly] What?!
[groans] Let my ponies go!
Spike, what are you doing?
If my stone scales didn't itch so much and we weren't in immediate danger, this would be [chuckles] really embarrassing!
Danger?
Well, I was headed to Zecora's to get some cream for your scales. I had no idea you were—
Molt smell?
[high-pitched] Twilight!
Whoa!
Was that Rarity?
And Zecora! I tried to save them, but it's all I can do to stop scratching long enough to dive out of the way when that bird attacks!
[gasps, sighs] Finally! I didn't think that itching would ever stop!
What's happening?! I... I can't move!
What just... happened? Did I just sprout wings? I just sprouted wings!
Whoops.
Spike?! How did you get wings?!
I don't know! But they're pretty aweso– Whoa!
Do you think you can fly up and distract him while I work on freeing Zecora and Rarity?
Hey, giant chicken! If you like dragons so much, come and get me!
Greetings.
Spike!
I know that the molt produced surprising things. But I'm glad that the last was a new pair of wings!
[loudly] Yes! And also, I'm glad you've got wings!
This is amazing! I didn't know if you'd ever get wings. I'm so happy for you. Does it have something to do with this molt you were talking about?
[sighs] It's what's been going on with me. The breakout, the fire burps. The molt is when dragons get older and start to change. I wish I could stop it, but I can't. I-I should go.
Go? What are you talking about?
In the Dragon Lands, families make molters leave home. It's called the molt effect.
Well, this isn't the Dragon Lands, and molt effect or no, I don't want you going anywhere.
But I'm growing up. What if something even worse happens?
You're supposed to grow up, but you'll always be you. And whatever happens, we'll get through it together.
Woo-hoo! Yeah! Woo-hoo! Look at me! Let's go home!
Uh, I don't need to carry you anymore, do I? You have wings.
They are new, and I don't want to overdo it.
I can't believe you thought any of us would send you away because of some silly molt effect. [sighs] Even if the symptoms were slightly unsettling. And let's face it, the odor wasn't pleasant. Nopony would stop caring for you just because you were getting older. Everypony goes through changes, but sometimes change can be wonderful. Like being able to model for any length of dress! [giggles] Uh, a bit higher, darling, please?
I'm glad to help, Rarity. But don't you think there's wonderful things about flying that don't involve dresses?
Whoa, whoa, whoa!
Almost... there...
Ah! I can't wait! Twilight's school is supposed to be amazin' inside!
[whispering] Rarity says there's never been a school like it!
[grunting] I heard the students get to do tons of awesome stuff!
Do ya see anything yet?
Uh, yeah. It looks like a broom! And a dustpan and some buckets.
That sounds like a closet.
Try another window.
Whoa, whoa, whoa!
Whoa...
Whooooo's ready for cupcakes?!
Oh, they're not for you, silly. They're for sharing! First, say something nice like this. Ocellus, you are a great listener! Now you get to keep one cupcake and share one with another creature.
Yona, you're really strong!
Ugh!
Whoa!
All right, students! It's time to meet some new friends!
That's friendship in action, y'all!
Wow! And I thought our school was fun!
Yeah! Miss Cheerilee never lets us play buckball in class. I know. I've tried.
Hey! Why don't we go here instead? It's still school, right?
[cheering] Great idea!
[sighs] What could be better than learnin' friendship with your best friends?
[clears throat] Good morning, class. Today, we're going to learn about friendship through the ages. Spike, slide one, please.
Back in the days of Chancellor Puddinghead... Uh, Spike?
Huh? Sorry, Twilight. Still getting used to my new wings. They're pretty great, huh?
Yes, Spike. As I was saying... Huh? What are you three doing here?
We wanna go to your school!
But why?
We wanna learn friendship!
And play buckball!
I see. Why don't you three come with me? Spike, you're in charge.
Yes!
Hi, Twilight! Looks like you could use a guidance counselor's help! Hint, hint.
No, thanks, Starlight. I've got this.
[sadly] Great. Well, I'll just... go dust my office for the seventieth time.
[to Cutie Mark Crusaders] I'm sorry to have to tell you this, but... you can't be my students.
Why not?
Isn't this place for everycreature?
Yes, but we teach friendship lessons here. You already know all about helping ponies in need and being there for each other.
Can't you just give us a chance?
Pleeeeeeeeeeeaaaase?
You need Cheerilee's classes, not mine. Hurry up. You don't want late marks on your permanent record.
O dragon! My dragon!
Spike?! What did you do?
[sighs] Well, I'm not giving up! I know we can prove we belong in this school!
Yeah! Um... how?
By showin' Twilight we've still got lots to learn about friendship. And I know just where to start.
[grunts] What in tarnation? Apple Bloom! You know better than to leave our good tools out like that! And aren't you supposed to be on harvest duty right now?
Eh, it's not like the apples are goin' anywhere.
[stammering] What's gotten into you? Those chores are your responsibility! Farm work is family work!
Sorry, Applejack. Maybe if I went to Twilight's school, I'd learn to be better at helpin' the family.
Ahhh. So that's what this is all about. Well, if it's learnin' you want, I'd be happy to give you a private lesson right now... [angrily] Startin' with cleanin' up all this equipment!
Hmph!
Please can I go to Twilight's school?!
Please? Please?!
How 'bout now?
So there I was, leading the Wonderbolt formation into a super dangerous Sundown Spiral, when suddenly... [imitates whooshing] There was a huge storm cloud in our way!
"Citrine Spark": What happened?
My genius happened! I changed the routine on the fly! And because my crew are such tight friends, they followed me!
[gasps] What did you do?!
Only the coolest thing ever! I flew up and—
Did a super-amazing half-twist into a backflip sonic rainboom?!
Hey! I never told that story to my students before. Scootaloo!
They're coming! Get ready!
Look out!
[stiltedly] Look out! Whoa!
[stiltedly] Hey! Watch where you are going!
[stiltedly] I was watching! Watching you drive like a crazy pony!
[stiltedly] Well, maybe if you did not drop apples all over the street, I would not have to!
Ooh. I've never seen Apple Bloom and Scootaloo argue like this.
Yeah. They usually go together like candy canes and stripes.
Whoa! Oof!
[stiltedly] My apples? This is all your fault, Scootaloo!
[stiltedly] Hey, Sweetie Belle is the clumsy one!
[stiltedly] I'm not talking to either one of you ever again!
Goodness. They seem really upset.
It's almost like they forgot they're friends.
[quietly] I think it's working!
[stiltedly] You are so careless! [quietly] Good plan, Apple Bloom!
[stiltedly] Careless? I will show you who is the one who is careless! [quietly] And great acting, Sweetie Belle!
[out loud] We're an awesome team!
All right!
Yay!
Oops.
You're friends again! I knew you would be! Candy cane stripes forever!
Now they'll never let us into Twilight's school.
Okay, we've tried shirkin' chores, pesterin', disguises, fightin'.
Hmmm... We need to do something new. Something unexpected.
Great idea, Scootaloo! We haven't tried cryin' yet.
Yeah! It always works for Rarity.
I wasn't crying. I think it's coming from outside.
Aww. She looks so sad. We better go see what's wrong.
Hey. Are you okay?
Oh. Thank you for asking. But no. I'm having real trouble with... [sniffling] ...the School of Friendship.
Twilight won't let you go either, huh?
Really?
I just moved here to go to school, but everything's so new and different. I don't know anypony.
Well, now you do. I'm Apple Bloom. This is Sweetie Belle and Scootaloo. We're the Cutie Mark Crusaders.
[sniffs] I'm Cozy Glow. It's very nice to meet you, but I don't know if I'll stay long. I'll probably flunk out. I'm having so much trouble with my friendship lessons.
We can help with those!
We know all about friendship!
And studyin' with you would be almost as good as bein' in class!
But why would you help me? What's in it for you?
That's how friendship works. When you give from your heart, you don't expect anything back.
Well, golly, if you really mean it...
Uh-huh!
I could use some help with my homework. I have to do something nice for each of these ponies. But I don't know anything about them. And it's so hard to talk to ponies you've never met.
Well, you're in luck, 'cause we know all of those ponies!
Get ready for a friendship A-plus!
That's Bon Bon. If you wanna do something nice for her, first you gotta figure out what she needs.
Well, how am I supposed to do that?
Just pay attention. Friendship is about listening to others.
Ow. Ow.
Uh-oh. That cactus keeps pricking her every step she takes. Hmm, if only there was something to protect her from those spines.
Thank you! That's so thoughtful.
I did it!
Good job! But, uh, next time, maybe don't give away my helmet.
Oopsie.
Green, purple, yellow. And one more purple. Whew. Sorting all those took longer than I thought.
You really think Mrs. Cake will like these new sprinkle shakers?
Mm-hmm. Now she won't have to use rainbow sprinkles all the time. She can just pick the color she wants!
Mrs. Ooh! I'm sorry, I was out to lunch. Were you fillies waiting for me long?
No. Um, these are for you!
Mrs. Oh, well, what a lovely surprise! I can't wait to try them out!
Mrs. Look! I made rainbow sprinkles! Aren't they wonderful?
At least she likes her present?
Uh-huh...
Golly. How'd you know that would make him so happy?
Friendship means pitchin' in to help others' chores go faster. 'Specially when their special somepony's waitin' for 'em.
[groans] That class was so boring!
Not even Miss Cheerilee can make the history of radishes exciting.
I bet they don't have to learn about that stuff at Twilight's school.
Guess what! I got an A on my homework!
Nice goin'!
And I never could have done it without your help!
No problem!
We just wish we could have done more.
Actually, you can. Headmare Twilight is giving us a big test at the end of the week, and I could really use your help studying.
We wanted to go to Twilight's school more than anything. But helpin' you has been even more fun! You can count on us!
Um... intelligence?
Laughter?
Yes!
Is it... control?
Kindness! Loyalty! Honesty! Generosity! Laughter! Magic!
How'd the test go?
Were there essay questions?
Did you remember what we taught you?
But how could Cozy Glow fail her friendship test?
Ahem. I'd like to see you three in my office!
[quietly] I know we wanted to be invited inside, but it kinda went different in my head.
I can't believe you'd do something like this!
Like what?
You are Cozy Glow's tutors, aren't you?
We've been working with her for days!
That's what she told me. So you've been setting her up to fail?
I know you're upset that I won't let you come to my school, but to teach Cozy all the wrong things out of spite... That's just cruel!
But we taught her all the right things!
Then how do you explain these friendship test answers? [reading] "What are the six Elements of Harmony?" Five turtlenecks and a cheese grater? "Who is the Princess of Friendship?" Your mom?
I... I don't understand.
Me neither. I never thought you three would pull such a mean prank. I'm afraid I'm gonna have to ask you to stay away from my school. And my students.
Oh, no!
Hmm? [dryly] Yay. Now I'll alphabetize them in reverse order. [sighs] Not much need for a guidance counselor at a school of friendship.
Aah!
How much of that did you hear?! Uh, never mind.
[laughs nervously] Welcome! Can I get you a comfort pillow? Security blanket? Empathy cocoa?
Uh, I just need some advice.
Oh! Well, I have plenty of that! Anecdotes, insight, midnight confessions... I'm babbling. [clears throat] Go ahead. I'm listening.
I think I got my friends in trouble. They helped me study for my friendship test, and I failed it... on purpose.
Well, the Cutie Mark Crusaders wanted to go to this school more than anything. So I thought if I showed Headmare Twilight they're bad at friendship, she'd let them come here with me.
I guess I still have a lot to learn about friendship.
Actually, I think you're doing all right. Sure, that was a really, really bad way to try to help your friends, but what matters is you wanted to. The reason the Cutie Mark Crusaders don't go to this school is because they'd make better teachers than students.
So you do have a place for them here?
Hmmm...
[groans] I bet there's no "Wonderful World of Cleaning" lesson at Twilight's school.
[coughs] We'll never find out now.
[sighs] I still don't get how Cozy failed her test after all that studying.
Or how Twilight could blame us for it!
Or how gum can be so sticky!
Sorry to interrupt, Miss Cheerilee. But can I borrow Apple Bloom, Sweetie Belle, and Scootaloo?
We didn't do anything wrong! We promise!
I know that. Now. Which is why I wanted to talk to you.
Wait. So we're not in trouble?
Just the opposite. Cozy Glow, is there something you'd like to say?
This is all my fault. I messed up my test on purpose so we could all go to school together. I'm sorry.
Thank you, Cozy Glow. Honesty is one of the pillars of friendship. [to Cutie Mark Crusaders] But you already know that. Which is why I'd like to give you these.
They're honorary diplomas, makin' y'all official graduates of this here school.
You've more than earned them.
Without even having to study!
[chanting] We are graduates! We are graduates! We are graduates!
And if you're interested, I think Starlight has a place for you at my school after all.
Woo-hoo!
We could use some friendship tutors on staff. And I hear you're the best out there.
Then what are we waitin' for? Let's get tutorin'! Come on, Cozy!
And that's why this school needs you as our guidance counselor.
[sighs] I've been planning this retreat for weeks, and we're already ten minutes behind! Where is that photographer?!
...No-no-no-no-no-no-no!
I'm so sorry! Can you forgive me? I don't expect you to forgive me... Forgive me?
Of course. I'll help you set up your—
Princess Twilight, thanks so much for this! The Canterlot Historical Society is thrilled to document the friendship work your teachers do! Let me just pretty you all up!
Ooh!
[giggles] Ooh!
Ow! Hey!
Don't want a single hair out of place, do we? This is for the history books! Now...
Well, that's that! Bye!
Waaaait! You forgot Starlight! She needs a picture, too!
'Kay.
Now I'll get out of your manes. I know how busy you are.
Now I have everything I need.
Yes, I know! We have been planning this for quite some time. [laughing evilly] Oh, thank you, Applejack. My spell can create a copy of anypony I desire. All I need is an image and a piece of the pony. [sniffs] Oh, and this.
Why copies, Rarity? Because Princess Twilight and her friends control the Elements of Harmony, the most powerful weapon in all Equestria.
Which means you - will - be - able - to - use - them - too!
And serve me!
Together, we will destroy Twilight Sparkle and her meddlesome friends!
With the Elements under my control, I'll build a new hive of Earth ponies, unicorns, and Pegasi, and I will rule as Queen once again!
Hmm. At least our retreat isn't too far behind schedule. Get ready for fun!
Are we talking fun fun, or learning pretending to be fun?
Both! We've all been so busy teaching, we've hardly had a chance to hang out with each other. And I may have scheduled some friendship activities as well!
Count me in! We can do friendship trust falls and pony pyramids! Oh! And hide and seek! Quick! Find me!
Well, I love the idea of some quiet time with my best friends.
[screams] You found me!
Rarity, why is Applejack carrying all your stuff?
Oh, that's not mine. Yes, I used to overpack a tad, but now it's just the essentials for me. I'm a simple filly.
Normally I wouldn't lug so much gear, but did y'all know this is Starlight's first time campin'?
I just never really felt the need to... "hang out" in nature.
Home has books, tea, fewer bugs, a roof...
That attitude right there is why I brought the whole kit and caboodle. I'm givin' Starlight the full Apple family campin' experience!
Um, where are we camping?
Right next to the Elements that brought us all together in the first place – the Tree of Harmony!
Listen to your queen! We must retrieve the Elements of Harmony!
Hunting down some lame Elements? This is the worst day ever!
Those Elements are mine! Along with this rock! Oh, and that twig!
I got all kinds o' Elements right here under my hat. I'll let you see 'em for five bits.
[scoffs] Losers.
Why didn't you just attack them?
Excuse me?
You were close enough to pull hairs from their manes. Why not just take your revenge then?
They've defeated my army. I know better than to strike alone. I need—
Friends?
Servants! And the power of the Elements!
Right. So where are these Elements of Harmony?
The location of the most powerful weapon in Equestria isn't something made known to just anypony. I learned they were hidden somewhere in this forest.
Yeah, well, it is a big forest.
Everypony, stop! And smell these roses! [sniffs] Ahhh! Oh, yeah!
[nervous giggle] Right. Roses. Fun. Now, let’s try and stay on schedule.
Applejack, darling, anything in that wagon for mane maintenance?
Uh, let's see here. Uh... all right. I got a bandana!
Ugh, an entire wagon and no anti-frizz? Darling, you're not even prepared.
I am! For campin'? How ya doin', Starlight?
Whoa! Ugh. [flatly] Great.
Oh, no! You and your sister fell out of your nest and got separated? That's terrible! Here. I'm sure your home isn't too far away.
[yelps] Pinkie! If we keep stopping to have fun, we're never gonna get to the fun things I've got planned!
[gasps] Good point! Last one to the Tree of Harmony is a parasprite! Whoo-hoo!
I'm sooooo bored. Are we there yet?
Where yet? We don't even know where we're going!
The quicker we search the forest, the quicker we find the Elements.
I know where the Elements are. This, uh, here boulder just told me. I swear.
You tried to fly out of the nest, but you fell and got lost?
[yawns] Come get me when I should care.
Where... are... the others?!
Uh... A, uh, a bugbear in... plaid socks flew down and, uh, g-grabbed them! Then disappeared! Huh. Craziest thing I ever did see!
Turn around. We're going back.
No. Keep searching. I'll find the others. We can accomplish more if we split our resources.
Very well. You have my permission.
"Permission"? You need us way more than we need you, your Majesty! The others are fools. But with me to lead them, there's no reason we can't find the Elements and keep the power for ourselves!
You're it! Hey, how'd you get ahead of me? You're fast.
Ugh! I'm looking for Fluttershy and Rainbow Dash.
Aren't they back there?
They are?
Sure! Unless they're already at the Tree of Harmony.
What is the Tree of Harmony?
Oh-ho-ho. This is one of your "activities", right? Like a friendship quiz? It's the crystal tree that holds the Elements of Harmony. Boom!
[gasps] Where is it?
[imitates buzzer] It's at the bottom of the stairs in the ravine by the Castle of the Two Sisters. Double boom!
How do you know? You've seen it?
Mm-hmm. Honestly, Twilight, these questions are super easy.
Right where you belong.
Oh, dear. This isn't where I belong. Oh, Rainbow Dash! I'm so glad you're here. I was lost.
Bummer. Later.
What just happened?
Applejack, Rarity, Rainbow Dash, [overlapping] Fluttershy!
Oh, fantastic. First Pinkie races ahead of us, and now Fluttershy's lost somewhere behind us. My retreat is off to a great start!
It's not like Fluttershy to disappear like this.
We'll split up and search for her. We can all meet back at the Tree. Starlight, take the navigation gear and—
I'll find Pinkie Pie.
Bored. Bored. Bored.
This is ridiculous! Where are my other minions?!
They're at a secret party up in that there tree. Run by a... squirrel named, uh, Jerome. But, uh, y-you need a password to get in.
[growls] Enough!
You will go out there and find the others, you will bring them back here, and we will steal the Elements of Harmony so I can destroy Starlight's life like she destroyed mine! [through gritted teeth] Understand?
Mean Rarity, Mean Applejack, [nervously] Uh-huh!
The party password is "rutabaga".
Oh. Nopony asked you. I hope you all freeze this winter!
Hello again, little friend. I think I may be walking in circles.
[gasps] Oh, my! Where did you learn that kind of language? Um, excuse me?
Finally, you found her!
Me? We're looking for Fluttershy!
Where's Starlight?
Well, if I knew that—
[grunts] Hey!
This is mine! And this as well! Oh, and this is absolutely mine!
Rarity, what in the hay are you gonna do with a fishin' rod?
Starlight, darling, you're a gloriously bad camper. And coming from me, that is saying a lot.
I know. Want to break it to Applejack for me?
Who's breakin' what now?
Who are you?
Very funny, Applejack. Still me under all this gear. Starlight.
Starlight? How 'bout that? Y'all better come with me. It's, uh, dangerous out here.
Applejack, darling, are you all right? You look a little peaky. And where's your wagon?
Uh... stolen! Uh, I barely got away! Follow me, and I'll tell ya all about it.
Pinkie! There you are! What are you doing?
You call that a pop?! Ugh!
I thought you were racing to the retreat.
Please. Why would I waste my time on a boring, lame, no-fun retreat?
What? Rainbow Dash! I think something's wrong with Pinkie!
Not my problem.
Fluttershy! What's wrong?
[crying] Everycreature is mad at me!
[gasps] What?! That can't be right!
[groans] Can we hurry this up? We're on a schedule here!
Twilight, your schedule can wait! Fluttershy's upset.
Well, tell her to get over it! I'll go get the others. Stay here!
Oh, great. You upset Fluttershy, too?
You know what, Twilight? Maybe if you weren't so worried about schedules, you'd realize you're the one ruining the retreat for your friends!
[gasps] Well, if my friends don't care about the retreat I planned for them... maybe they should've stayed home!
Keep it together. You can do this. You need those imbeciles if your plan is gonna come together.
Your plan?
[gasps] Uh, the plan. I'm just trying to do your bidding, your Majesty.
Grub-sitting you six is nothing like controlling my hive! Give me one good reason why I shouldn't just destroy you all and start over!
Because I know where the Elements of Harmony are. You need me.
Mine. Mine! [crazed laughter] All mine!
[to Applejack] I'm guessing some kind of curse? Maybe poison joke?
Well, somethin' sure ain't right.
Hang on. I got a shovel we can use to whack those vines out of the way.
[grunting] I knew it! I knew you wanted it all for yourselves! You can't have it!
...So there I was. Just me and, uh, a bucket of honey. Yeah, yeah, that's the ticket. Uh, b-but I-I survived all by myself in this here forest for, uh, a hundred and... twenty-seven hours!
Really? I can't believe you've never told us that story before.
She's making a point. We get it. You're the greatest camper in the history of Equestria.
Well, I sure don't need any o' that silly stuff you're luggin' around.
Uh, the things you gave me are silly?!
[gasps, tearing up] Glad I was so entertaining for you!
[to Mean Applejack] I'm going to make sure that she doesn't break a hoof out there, and then you and I are going to have a serious talk!
Finally! There. That's all of you. Nopony leaves without my say-so.
Now, wait a second. Weren't you just—?
Starlight! Oh! Please stop running!
Ugh!
Whoa!
Of course I care about Fluttershy!
Then you've got a super weird way of showing it!
W-What in Equestria's going on here?
Twilight is so into her retreat that she doesn't even care if her friends are upset! She just wants us to "stay on schedule"!
Well, I'm sorry, Pinkie! If I knew you thought this was a "boring, lame, no-fun retreat", I wouldn't have invited you in the first place!
I never said that!
Sorry, y'all. We would've been here sooner, but we had to take the long way after Rarity ran off with all my stuff.
Wha—?! I most certainly did not!
What?! You know I ain't no liar! [to Starlight Glimmer] Where's all your gear?
Why? So you can laugh at me some more?!
Hey, hey, we're all friends here!
Everypony, quiet! Listen. We know each other really well — the great stuff and how to get on each other's nerves, too. I wanted a fun trip with my friends. But instead, I got carried away with plans and ruined everything. If you want to forget it all and head home, I won't be offended. I just want us to stop fighting.
[to Starlight Glimmer] Hey, sorry if I got carried away with all that campin' stuff.
I'm sorry, too. I should've just told you I'll never like camping. Also, I'll never like camping.
Well, if we're all being honest, I can't survive with just this tiny yet fashionable little saddlebag! I miss my things!
[to Twilight Sparkle] I'm sorry that you thought that I thought your plan was lame. Your plans are the most un-lamest!
And I always have fun when we're all together. Even if it's learning pretending to be fun.
So... does that mean you still want to have the retreat?
Yes!
If everypony likes me again.
Let's get to that Tree. I have the whole campsite set up and ready.
[groans] What's this garbage?
Badger installation art! Ya see—
Just! Retrieve! The Elements!
Mine! Mine!
Once we get the power of the Elements, no creature – not even her Majesty – can tell us what to do. Just follow my lead. Got it?
Ooh! That one's mine!
Oops. I'd say sorry, but I'm not!
Stop it, fools!
How dare you! I created you!
Imbeciles! You ruined everythiiiiiiiing!
Servants always fail you in the end! Just wait, Starlight. I will have my revenge!
[gasps] Are you kidding me?
[laughing] This was... the worst... day... ever!
Come on, everypony. We can fix this campsite in no time.
Spoken like a true camper.
Eh, don't push it.
You know, if we can survive a day like this, I think our friendship is strong enough to handle anything the world can throw at us.
Who can tell me what these are?
Whoa...
Me likey...
Shiny!
Treasure?
Nope! They're all legendary magical artifacts!
Heh-heh. I've read ahead in Equestrian Cultures and Camaraderie: Volume Seven.
You're right, Ocellus. This is the Amulet of Aurora, the Talisman of Mirage, the Helm of Yksler, the Crown of Grover, Knuckerbocker's Shell, and Clover the Clever's Cloak.
And the gems are real! Eh, not that I... tasted them.
Princess Celestia gifted these to our school, since they each represent one of the cultures our students come from. And we'll learn all about them in a Spell-venger Hunt!
[aside, to Sandbar] Is that a pony thing?
Eh.
It's a magical scavenger hunt. Each of you will work in pairs to try to find where in the school these artifacts are hidden.
The team that finds the most wins a private tour of the Canterlot Archives with Princess Celestia.
[excited squeal] Learning and fun?! Does it get any better than that?!
You've been underwater a long time, haven't you?
Gallus and Silverstream, sounds like you're our first pair!
What? They'll make a great team.
Um, why pony glowing?
Wait. You all were called on this friendship quest, too?
It must be a really important one.
And terribly far away.
Just getting there will take days!
Do y'all know what this means? There won't be any teachers left to run the school!
Should we send our students home?
I say we take 'em with us! Road trip!
Problem is we don't even know how long we'll be gone.
Don't worry, everypony. I already have a seventy-point plan in place for this very situation.
You want me to be headmare?!
You're the perfect choice! You're a good leader and an expert in friendship. I trust you to run this school exactly as I would.
Uh, that's a pretty big responsibility, Twilight.
Which is why I've prepared everything you need.
The curriculum, rules for the Spell-venger Hunt, dining hall menus for the next six months...
Six months?! You're not really gonna be gone that long, are you?
...and Spike. Anything that isn't covered in my files, he'll be able to help you with.
Then why not put him in charge?
No-ho-ho, thanks. Eh, being a princess for Twilight was hard enough.
I'm gonna pretend that made sense. But if you're sure it's what you really want, I promise I won't let you down.
I knew I could count on you.
Great. What could possibly go wrong?
Goodbye, Rarity! A-And everypony!
Come back soon! Please!
Huh?
[through mock tears] I hate goodbyes, don't you? I just go to pieces.
Discord! What a... heh... nice surprise! This is your first time at our new school, isn't it?
Oh, was I not invited to the grand opening?
Friends and Family Day?
Baccalaureate?
 I hadn't noticed.
Well, at least you're here now. Um, why are you here now?
To fill in for Twilight, of course, as head-draconequus. I seem to recall a whole song about how this school is where you make your own rules. Now, who better at that than me?
Then you also must've heard Starlight is in charge now.
Really? I thought there must be some mistake.
Nope. Twilight picked me for the job. And she left pretty detailed instructions for me to follow.
[writing] "Item one – Gravity is optional."
Whoa-oa!
"Item two – The school's new mascot is an ambidextrous marmoset."
"Item three—"
Not gonna happen. I promised Twilight I'd handle this her way. So thanks, but no thanks.
Uh-oh. When we play Ogres & Oubliettes and he puts that many E's in "really", the things don't usually end well.
Don't worry, Spike. Discord and I are old "save Equestria" buddies. He'll be fine. Now, what's next on Twilight's list?
Okay. I hid the artifacts for the Spell-venger Hunt and ordered school supplies for the week. All you have to worry about is teaching class.
[sighs] Thanks, Spike. Maybe we will get through this okay.
Twittermites?
Ow!
Discord! What are you doing?!
[gags] We'll take it from here, Discord. Go relax. Have a cup of tea. At home.
Oh! Some thanks for all my help. And after I hired all those substitute teachers for you.
Actually, that does sound kinda helpful. And it was next on our to-do list.
Which teachers did you hire?
They call it "making friends", because you have to make creatures be your friends! Show me what you've got, yak!
[clears throat, quietly] Be my friend.
If you're quiet, I don't buy it!
[louder] Be my friend!
I've heard pudding that's more convincing!
[huffs, even louder] Be! My! Friend!
[quietly] That's not how Twilight teaches friendship.
Some field trip! Where's my iced tea?! [sips, gulps, spits] This is too cold! [sips, gulps, spits] Now it's too hot!
[sips, gulps, spits] Now it's too tea-flavored!
You call yourselves friends?!
That is definitely not how Twilight teaches friendship.
You hired a tree as a teacher?!
Its schedule was free.
Uh, guys? That's not just any tree.
[blows nose] It's a dragon-sneeze tree.
W-W-W-Wait! Calm down, everycreature! It's gonna be okay!
[yells] BE MY FRIEEEEENNNND!
Mmmm, my, my, my. You do seem like you're in over your head. Won't Twilight be so disappointed with how you're ruining—I mean, running her school?
Discord!
This is all your fault!
Mine? I thought you were in charge here. But I'm happy to pitch in if you need me.
What I need is for you to leave!
Happy now?
Come on, Discord. You know that's not what she means.
Fine! From now on, I won't try to help. At! All!
[groans] Thanks, Spike. Let's just hope he stays gone.
I wouldn't count on it. I think Discord's trying to test you.
But why? I thought we were friends.
Well, it's kinda what he does. Even to ponies or dragons he cares about.
Oh, well, I'm ready for him. I told Twilight I'd run her school right, and I'm gonna keep that promise. No matter what.
Good morning, students! I know there's been a little bit of adjustment since the professors left for their trip. But I've brought in new new teachers. And now everything should run smoothly. Now it's time for class. And don't forget, this afternoon is the Spell-venger Hunt!
[California accent] Yo! Greetings, fellow creatures!
Is this seat taken?
Welcome, class! You may call me the Great and Powerful Professor Trrrrrri—
Shhh! Really, that's so inconsiderate!
Oh, I better take this. Hello?
Oh, he did not! And what did you say?
[gasps] You did not!
Discord! Why are you here?!
Why, I'm a student of friendship, of course. Unless you don't think you're good enough to teach me.
Of course I am! No fruit calls in my class!
Magic is the most important element of friendship. So, today I, the Great and Powerful Trixie, will put on a magic show!
[chuckles] I'm learning so much. Aren't you?
[growls] Discord!
Eh, hello?
Um, what exactly is a long-distance plan?
Take a lap, team!
Uh, actually, we just finished Professor Spitfire's workout.
I've never run so fast in my life! Oh, this is great!
[pants] Hey, coach, we need a break.
Discord, that's enough! Endangering students crosses the line! I don't know why you're trying to ruin this school, but it stops now!
I wouldn't be so sure.
This is your last warning.
Hey-hey-hey! Take it easy, Starlight! Discord's your friend, remember?
Well, he's not acting like it!
[huffs] She's right, Discord. What's your problem?
My problem? How is the fact that Twilight decided to put an incompetent, power-hungry unicorn in charge of her school my problem?!
[nervous laughter] Don't worry. I just banished him from school grounds forever. He's fine.
That probably made things worse. Why didn't you just talk to Discord?
Because he's right about one thing. I've been doing a terrible job as headmare.
No, you haven't. Discord is just bein'... Discord.
Maybe. But I wonder why me being in charge bothers him so much.
We can figure that out after the Spell-venger Hunt. C'mon!
For this afternoon's Spell-venger Hunt, you'll need to use the artifacts' history to find where they're hidden in the castle. When you spot one, touch it with a magic shield to keep track of your score.
Twilight left the list of your hunt partners before she left. I'll pass out the shields.
Ready... set... Spell-venger Hunt!
C'mon! We can use Twilight's observatory to watch the teams!
I hope you know where you're going.
To the Helm of Yksler!
Eh, works for me.
In our book, it says Yksler was an honorable yak warrior. Any enemies that saw him put down their weapons in peace. I think his artifact must be in one of these suits of armor.
I'm guessing that one.
Yes! One down, five to go!
Awww, Ocellus and Smolder found their first artifact! Wait. What's that?
Uh, I don't think that's part of the Spell-venger Hunt!
The school is haunted!
And not cool!
We're totally gonna win this Spell-venger Hunt!
Yeah, I doubt that. But at least I know where one of the artifacts is. Saw Spike hide it yesterday.
The Crown of Grover! Score!
They say it's magic and King Grover used it to become the first ruler of Griffonstone. I know, pretty sweet, right?
You paid attention in class!
What?! I-If you ever tell an—
Whoa!
3D painting!
Yup, that's definitely Discord. This is not good.
I thought you banished him from the school.
Only his body. Apparently, his ghost can come and go just fine. Let's go. We have to stop this.
How? No offense, but I don't think magic is the answer against Discord.
This time, I'm not using magic.
Hmm... What Yona look for?
The Shell of Knuckerbocker. It's like a seashell, but if you blow into it, you call a dragon! There's a sweet poem in our book about it. "Climb to the heights with dragon flight." [gasps] Like flight of stairs!
Yona take pony word for it.
Huh?
[grunts] What's happening?!
Ugh! Yona not know! But Yona do know Yona not like Spell-venger Hunt!
Discord' [laughing] Boo! Boo! Boo!
[yelps] Whoa!
Everycreature, stop!
B-B-B-But the school is haunted!
It's not haunted. It's Discord.
Discord' Headmare Starlight! Look at me! Look! I won the Spell-venger Hunt! Well done, me! Now what's my prize?
Detention.
Discord' Well, that's disappointing.
Discord, you can't keep messing up the school.
Discord' On the contrary. I think I rather can. And will.
Then I have just one thing to say to you.
Discord' Oh, do go on.
I'm sorry.
Discord' What?
I had to stop thinking like a headmare and start thinking like a guidance counselor to finally understand. You felt left out.
Uh... [stuttering] I don't know what you're getting at.
Nopony ever invited you to the school. And when you offered to help, I didn't listen. I was so worried about doing things Twilight's way, I didn't stop to think about being a good friend. I'd like to apologize for that. And offer you the job of vice headmare.
Huh?
Really?!
What?!
Why?!
No!
Him?!
Totally confused.
I accept! I mean, I-I-I suppose I can find some time in my busy schedule to help you out. But I will need my own office, expense account, parking space...
You're new to the world of education, aren't you?
Next time you want something, just ask for it, all right?
But then we'd miss out on all those delightful misadventures.
Hey! Watch the wings!
Now, Vice Headmare Discord, if you'll help me get this Spell-venger Hunt back in order.
[snaps fingers] Everything is re-hidden.
[chuckles] Well, with a few surprises.
Discord! I can't believe you tricked us into going on a friendship quest that wasn't real!
Oh, back so soon?
A glamour spell on our cutie marks?
A fake summons from the map?
Hey, at least we got to go spelunking in that really creepy cave with all those eyeless worm creatures chasing us.
Oh, Yona so glad ponies back!
Uh, y'all get the feelin' we missed somethin'?
Thanks for taking care of the school, Starlight.
It was a challenge. Heh. But I think things turned out just the way you'd have handled them.
[to Discord] Guess this means you're not vice headmare anymore.
Oh, poo! I just ordered business cards!
Ponies' voices fill the night Hearth's Warming Eve is here once again
Come on, everycreature! Sing!
La-la-la-la, la-la-la-la La-la, la-la, la-la, la-la
[hesitantly] La-la-la-la... la...
Not everycreature celebrate same way, you know.
Yeah. Dragons don't do pony holidays.
Sure we do! I love Hearth's Warming Eve! It's all about friends and presents and family and... presents!
It's also about putting aside differences to come together, like the Earth ponies, Pegasi, and unicorns did on the first holiday.
Oh! Is that why you put their Fire of Friendship on top of the tree? To help us remember their unity?
And 'cause it looks cool.
This is my favorite day of the year! [giggles] Not that I don't like the other ones. Tuesdays are great!
Yona like any day that is start of winter break.
Two whole weeks without classes. How will Ocellus survive?
I think you'll all enjoy the time off to be home with your families. To celebrate your own traditions. Attention, everycreature! School is officially out! Happy holidays, and we'll see you after the break!
And for those of you traveling outside Equestria...
Yeah, shouldn't you guys be getting ready to go? If you miss that train, it's a really long walk.
Go pack up, and we'll take you to the station.
It's that new bowtie I wanted, isn't it?
You'll have to wait and see.
I'm waiting! But in the meantime, I'm shaking!
Wha... What happened?!
Everything's ruined – that's what's happened!
And I don't think it was an accident. Somepony was up here!
Over there!
Outside!
That's the students' quarters!
Might as well give up, whoever you are! We got ya cornered!
Hello? Is anypony there?
I'll check the back door!
What's happening? [gasps] Another decorating party?
Has anycreature come in here?
Well, yeah. All of us did. To pack? Like you told us to?
After that. Did you hear anything?
Uh-uh.
What's up?
Yona done packing!
Is something wrong?
[grunts] The back door's locked! No way out!
But whoever did it had to have come in here! We saw them!
Whoever did what?
Whoa... That is so not cool.
And whoever did it ran into your rooms. No one came out, and all of you are still here.
One of you must have done this! But... why would any of you want to sabotage Hearth's Warming Eve?
Ugh! Yak not do this! Yona offended by accusation!
We don't know what happened. Maybe this wasn't even on purpose. But I want to give whoever caused this mess a chance to tell the truth and explain themselves. I'll make it easy for you. Close your eyes. Now, if you did this, raise your hoof. Or claw. Or whatever.
[sighs] Come on, Spike. Looks like we have to— Spike, you can open your eyes.
What? Oh!
Uh, what about me?
You all can.
But since nocreature took responsibility for this mess, you're all gonna have to help clean it up before you can go home.
Why do I have to stay?!
Aw, but the holidays!
While you're cleaning, we'll bring you into my office one at a time. Since honesty is one of the Elements of Harmony, we want to give you each a chance to tell us the truth.
And once we find out who did it, just you wait! We're gonna...! We'll...! What are we gonna do exactly?
[sighs] The guilty party won't be going home over Hearth's Warming break. She or he will stay here for some one-on-one friendship lessons.
But what if none of us confesses?
Then... [sighs] I guess there's no holidays for anycreature. You'll all stay over the break.
All right, let's get to the bottom of this. Who wants to be interviewed first?
Eh. I'll go. Beats mop duty.
Hey, I know! We can make a game out of this! See who finishes cleaning up first!
Let's save time and cut to the chase. Which one of you did it?
I would never do something this horrible! I love Hearth's Warming Eve! And I do not want to miss going home for it.
Huh. I didn't even know changelings celebrated Hearth's Warming.
Oh, yes! It's our favorite holiday! Well, since Headmare Twilight shared it with us last year. She gave our hive very clear instructions.
[clears throat, reading] "Welcome to the traditions and fun of Hearth's Warming! Here's a guide to help you enjoy this celebration of pony history. Families start the holidays by putting the tree up!"
[reading] "Thirsty? Dive into some holiday punch!"
[reading] "Just before bed, everypony exchanges gifts."
It doesn't say how long we keep doing this.
[reading] "And to finish celebrating, you can build a fire, light it up, and sing carols."
: Carols, carols, carols, carols, caroooools
You might have misunderstood things just a little.
Eh. We may not have done everything exactly the way you do. But we made our own traditions! And I can't wait to do it all again this year!
If we ever get out of here.
Ocellus? Your turn.
What happened?
What do you think happened? I told her I didn't do it.
Ugh! Yona tired of waiting! Yaks always home for holidays!
How do you celebrate Hearth's Warming in Yakyakistan, Yona?
Yaks do not. Our holiday much better. Is called Snilldar Fest. Night before, yaks gather things to smash and put them in big pile. Then in morning, we smash them! In afternoon, we smash them again! In evening—
So it's just about smashing stuff, like all your other holidays.
No! How griffon get that idea? This holiday about so much more. Last year, for example. Most perfect Snilldar ever.
[voiceover] Whole family – grandpa, grandma yak, Yona's brother, sister, mother, father yak – all go to woods singing yak song.
Yak song! Yak song! Not very long! Sing again! Yak song! Yak song! Not very long! Sing again! Yak song! Yak song! Not very long! Sing again!
[voiceover] Calves in family pick out perfect smashing log. Then yaks smash it!
[voiceover] Then yak family build perfect snow fort... and smash it!
[voiceover] Then we hang perfect things on perfect moss pile and—
You smash it.
What you think yaks are, barbarians? Moss pile is for special family rituals. Last year, ritual for Yona.
[voiceover] All yak family gather around Yona and braid Yona hair for first time.
So, to recap... Your holiday is about smashing things and family.
Happy Snilldar to you too, Yona! It's so cool to learn new traditions from new friends!
Yeah, well, one of these new friends has gotten us all in trouble. And they'd better confess soon.
Sandbar? Sorry, but they said they want you to go in next.
Why the rush to get home, Smolder? Like you said, dragons don't really have holidays, do they?
Meh.
[gasps] That's so sad! You must do something in the winter for fun.
Well, we do have the Feast of Fire. Everydragon gets together and tells stories. The best one wins a pile of gemstones.
Ooh, what story won last year?
It was called "A Dream Come True".
Come on, now you've gotta tell it!
Ugh, fine. Once upon a time, there was this sad little dragon.
[narrating] Her name was Scales. She lived alone in the wilderness with nothing to eat.
[narrating] But one night, as she sat alone in a storm, she heard something. It was the Dragon Lord! Scales was scared, but the Dragon Lord told her not to be afraid, that he was taking her to the Dragon Lands for a great feast.
[narrating] Scales sat with the Dragon Lord's family and friends and had the biggest, best dinner of gemstones she'd ever eaten! Then, while the dragons were telling stories, Scales thought it would be so easy to seize power from this feeble and sensitive Dragon Lord. She saw her chance... and took it!
[narrating] She claimed the Bloodstone Scepter and took over the Dragon Lands! [as Scales, evil laughter] And forced the Dragon Lord to live out in the cold, just as she used to!
That's a horrible story!
Maybe to you. But dragons like hearing about weak, kind creatures getting defeated.
Silverstream! You're up! Let's go!
So, did you tell them you did it?
What?! No way! Why would I say that?
You already live in Ponyville. Staying here over break is no big deal.
School of Friendship good place for pony to have pony holiday.
I'd still rather spend it with my family at home. Oh! That reminds me! I have the best holiday story ever! It's called...
[voiceover] "The Day My Hearth's Warming Doll Almost Fell into the Fire!"
[voiceover] Just before we went to bed, my mom, my dad, and my sister all put our Hearth's Warming Dolls up on the mantel, just like we do every year. But this year, I put my doll too close to the edge, and it fell!
[in slow motion] Nooooooo!
[gasps] And?!
My doll hit the floor. But it could have gone in the fire!
[sarcastic] That's a great story. And you told it really well.
Yeah. It was a Hearth's Warming miracle.
Next! Smolder, come with me. Yona, Twilight's waiting for you.
The last two. So if neither one of them confesses, that means...
We're never going home!
We'll be here forever!
Beyond forever.
But I can't miss the Three Days of Freedom Celebration!
[sarcastic] How long does that last?
It used to be only one day, but now to commemorate our escape from the Storm King, we're adding two more days of awesome! See?
There's a book?
Mm-hmm! Queen Novo had these made for the Mount Aris board of tourism to explain it all to guests!
[voiceover] We'll spend the first night in Seaquestria, thanking the ocean for protecting us from the Storm King. Sea-dancing, whale-singing, shell-stringing... Lots of "ing"'s.
[voiceover] The second day will be on Mount Aris, with sky-dancing and a wind song in the Harmonizing Heights to celebrate the Storm King's defeat. Then the third day, everycreature will party together, on land and sea! Grandparents and parents and sisters, uncles, brothers, acquaintances, neighbors, and cousins. And at the end of the night, Queen Novo is gonna give out presents!
Wait. Hold on. "Cousins"? What are those?
Your aunts and uncles' children. You know, part of your family. Heh. Oh. You're teasing us again, right?
I'm guessing neither one of you confessed.
[sighs] Headmare Twilight say wait here.
Maybe they're changing their minds about sending us home.
Why would they? Face it. We're stuck here.
[sniffles] But-but-but I have to go home!
My mom makes the best kelp fritters.
How can you be so cool about this?
We're mad. We just show it differently.
More like you don't show it at all.
What pony getting at?
Maybe it wasn't just one prankster. Maybe there were three of you. And you're trying to hide your guilt by not being upset!
It does make sense.
Guys, stop it.
Or maybe whoever did it is only pretending to be upset to throw us off.
Me?! But I didn't!
Come on, let it go.
Come on! Ocellus, you know you did it! Just fess up!
I said, stop fighting! That's not what the holidays are about! No matter what you call them or how you celebrate! D-Do you know how lucky you all are? With your stories about sharing and-and kindness and getting together with everycreature that you care about?
But griffons do that too, don't they?
Some holiday about a moon?
[sighs] Blue Moon Festival. The one time of year when griffons are nice to each other. Well, as nice as we can be.
[voiceover] Families get together to eat and then complain about the food and give each other presents they don't like and mostly just try not to yell at each other.
Well, at least you get to be with your family.
No... because I don't have a family.
[voiceover] What about Grampa Gruff?
[voiceover] That's just his name. He's not anygriff's actual grandpa. I felt like I never had a place in Griffonstone.
Then I came here and, well, met all of you. So I don't want to go home for the break. And that's why... I did it!
[gasps] Griffon mess up decorations?!
Yeah. It was me. I put goo powder in the Fire of Friendship.
So it wasn't Ocellus?
Why would you ruin things for us?
I didn't plan to! I just figured if I made a mess, our teachers would make us stay to clean up. We'd be together a little longer.
Well, it worked, didn't it?
Better than I thought. And when Headmare Twilight threatened to cancel winter break, that meant I would get to be with all of you through the entire holiday. That's why I didn't confess.
So, why are you admitting this now?
I hated seeing all you fighting and-and blaming each other. That's the opposite of what all your holidays mean. Except maybe yours, Smolder. I can't keep all of you from the happiness of your homes and families just because I feel bad. I'm sorry. Don't worry. You won't have to tell our teachers. I will.
You don't have to. We already know.
We kinda guessed it was you. But we wanted to give you the chance to tell the truth.
I'm proud that you did, and I'm glad to see you've been paying attention in Professor Applejack's honesty classes. But you're still going to have to make amends and stay over break for extra friendship lessons by yourself.
I'll stay with him.
Me, too!
Yona stay also!
I'm staying!
What? All right. I guess pony holidays can't be that bad.
Now you can finally know what it's like to spend Hearth's Warming with friends who care about you.
[whispering, to Twilight Sparkle] Looks like they don't really need any extra lessons.
Since you obviously know that Hearth's Warming is about coming together, I'd be honored if all of you would join my friends as guests at our holiday table.
After we finish cleaning up.
Hey, this reminds me of another story! "The Time I Almost Spilled Grape Juice on the White Couch"!
Does it have a depressing ending?
I'm not sure pony stories work that way.
Gallus want Yona braid feathers?
Uhhh... pass.
Hearth's Warming Eve is here once again!
[voiceover] Dear Twilight, it is difficult to express how grateful I am to you for teaching me the power of friendship.
[voiceover] You would think after more than a thousand years, there would be nothing left to learn.
[voiceover] And yet, even a pony as old as I can continue to be surprised by how much there is to know.
[reading] "I hope you find these postcards enjoyable, and I look forward to seeing you again, though I can't say when my journey will be complete. Your friend, Star Swirl.
It must be gratifying to have your idol writing to you about the friendship lessons he's learning.
I'm not sure I'll ever get used to it. Of course, if he really wants to learn about friendship, he could just come to our school.
Professor Sparkle? The mailpony just came with, uh, a few things.
Ooh! The sewing machines I ordered for my class!
These came, too. I wasn't sure what to make of them.
These machines were costly, but I am quite certain the friendship lessons I can teach my students with them will be invaluable.
Oh, don't worry, darling. I'll think of something. And I didn't use the school funds to buy these. I made the purchase entirely with my own bits.
It's not that. It's this!
[reading] "Why waste your time at a friendship school that's just a school? Learn everything they teach and more at Friendship University"?!
Who would open another friendship school?
Oh, pfft! I'm sure it's nothing to worry about. You're the Princess of Friendship. What could this other school possibly offer?
It isn't just another friendship school. It's a university!
It says they teach the same lessons of competing schools in half the time. That's twice the learning!
And it's in Las Pegasus? If Professor Rarity lets us skip her sewing class – road trip!
I think we need to look into this school.
I don't like to judge solely on appearances. But... what kind of friendship school is this?
Only the best friendship school in the west... and maybe all of Equestria!
There's more ponies in here than at our whole school. Who is running this place?
[echoing] Welcome, friends! You are about to embark on a journey of amazing magnitude! One that will change your lives forever!
[echoing] Prepare yourselves to embrace a new path and become students of...
Friendship U!
Flim and Flam. Of course.
If you're alone and you can't make friends We understand your plight
Until now, there was just one way Your friendships could take flight
There is a school real far away That'll teach you what to know But if you live here, you couldn't stay
You'd learn you have to go-o-o-o
Awww...
Now, there is an alternative to all of that adversity
Not just a school, I'll have you know
But a whole university
At Friendship U, our aim is true In a city, not some backwater You'll learn the things you need to know At our new alma mater
That's it, everypony, you heard correct!
Friendship U, the one and only university of friendship!
As you can see, we're a success By any kind of stat
That may be so, for all I know But I still smell a rat
Everypony, lookie here That other school's headmare
Her presence is a testament To the mutual respect...
...we sha-a-a-are
What?! No, it isn't!
It really is the final piece To make our work complete
To have the Friendship Princess Bless our school is such a treat
We're so honored!
At Friendship U, we teach to you (and you!) All of our friendship knowledge You'll learn it all in half the time At the one and only friendship college
How can anypony learn friendship in half the time?
Our coursework is so accelerated, to take longer would be a crime!
The lessons that we teach have been Reviewed and checked and edited
Which might explain why our new school's
About to be accredited
At Friendship U, oh, yes, it's true Even the Princess of Friendship agrees The only place in Equestria To give out friendship degrees Yeah!
Friendship U! Friendship U! Friendship U!
That's it, everypony! Let's hear it! Tell us again why it's the best!
It's the only university of Friendship U!
Yeah!
Accredited?
It means officially recognized or authorized.
We know what it means. But who would accredit this place?
Why, the EEA, of course.
Chancellor Neighsay?!
The Equestria Educational Association has taken an interest in institutions that teach friendship in a pony-first environment. Surely you didn't think your school has a monopoly on the concept?
Well, she did write the book on it.
Ah, yes. How to teach friendship to creatures who will one day use it as a weapon against us.
How could they use friendship as a weapon?!
You tell me. It's your book. Meantime, this university appears to be a promising option for ponies who'd prefer to stick to the EEA book on the subject.
You can't be serious. They're obviously up to something. It's Flim and Flam!
[gasps] Well, that certainly wasn't friendly.
One would think the headmare of a school of friendship – albeit an unaccredited one – would behave differently. Unless she was trying to undermine the competition? Hmm?
I— No! What?! I-I am not!
I did think the Princess of Friendship would be friendlier.
Now, now, fillies and gentlecolts. Let's show the princess just how friendly we are by signing up for some classes!
Why don't I show you around?
I'm sorry, but approval from the EEA won't convince me that this school is what you promise.
And what would it take to convince you?
Well, somepony whose opinion I respect, for one.
Really? Somepony like... this?
Twilight?
Uh-oh.
Star Swirl? What are you doing here?
Why, studying friendship at Flim and Flam's wonderful school!
Oh, please. I think I know a disguise when I see one. Take off that ridiculous beard... Flam!
How's it going in here?
[groans] It-It's really me.
I'd heard rumors you've returned, but I didn't believe it until now. And if a pony of your stature is studying here, there really isn't anything else I need to see. I, Chancellor Neighsay, hereby confer upon Friendship University complete and unreserved EEA accreditation!
I... I don't understand. Why would you come here and not my school?
My travels brought me to Las Pegasus. I didn't come for the school, but Flim and Flam convinced me to try it out.
You can't trust Flim and Flam! They tried to con the Apples out of their farm! They sold fake health tonic! They run a resort in Las Pegasus!
Technically, our resort is a legitimate business.
I spent a thousand years thinking the worst of a "bad" pony. You taught me to look for the best in him. Whatever Flim and Flam's past may be, starting this school shows they want to change for the better.
I wish I could believe that.
Besides, what's untrustworthy about opening a school of friendship? They don't even charge for classes.
I don't know. But I know they're up to something. And until I find out, I'm begging you, come to my school instead.
I understand feeling threatened by competition, but my word, Princess. I wonder if the ill manners of the creatures at your school aren't contagious. I think I will take my leave before I become infected.
Twilight, I promise I'll visit your school soon. But for now, perhaps it's best if you return there.
You don't think they're running an actual friendship school, do you?
Darling, of course not. Which is why we have to investigate!
But we can't go poking around the school. Everypony'll think I'm still just "threatened by the competition".
Only if we do it as ourselves.
In these disguises, we could pass as students at out own school.
[muffled] I don't know, Rarity.
Ah-ah. What did I say about using our real names?
Sorry, "Plainity". But I'm pretty sure this isn't enough of a disguise.
Hey, strangers! Are you two new here?
[blows bubblegum] We sure are. Completely new.
Great! See ya in class!
[squeals] Now, I've read enough Shadow Spade to know the key to going undercover is rehearsing your backstory. [clears threat, in affected voice] I'm "Plainity". and I love bland old normal stuff. No frills for me. [normal voice] Okay! Your turn.
[groans] My name's Eyepatch. I have an eye patch.
Perfect! Now, how do we start our investigation?
I think we should split up. You enroll in some classes and find out what they're actually teaching. I'll look around and see what I can find, assuming I'm not recognized.
Welcome, newest students! Let's dive right in, shall we? One of the most important elements of friendship is being thoughtful. True or false?
If by "thoughtful" you mean "generous", I'd say true.
Correct! [laughs] It was a trick question. Very impressive, Miss...?
Plainity.
Well, well, well, Miss Plainity, keep it up and you'll be ready for our next level in no time!
Now, let's see if you can demonstrate for the class. What's something generous you could do for... me right now?
Class, Plainity here is now my star pupil. If any of you want a chance at studying with Star Swirl, I'd take notes on her every action.
Hello? The door is open, so I'll just assume it's okay to come in and look around. Unless somepony says it's not. All right, then.
[reading] "The Element of Laughter and its applications." Okay, that seems pretty genuine. "When to support your friends' decisions and when to talk sense." Huh. That's actually kind of interesting. Aha! "Friendship University's true goal... is to help friends become better friends"? [groans] Where is the proof that it's all a scam?
There isn't any!
Twilight Sparkle! Did you really think an eye patch was enough of a disguise?
No, I didn't!
Well, then we agree that everypony will recognize the Princess of Friendship in this photo of you sneaking into our office.
I can see the headline now! "Princess of Jealousy! Twilight Sparkle Bent on Ruining Her Competition!"
So sad. A news story like that would destroy your reputation. Nopony will want to go to your school after that.
Just wait until the papers get a hold of this!
"Princess Unhinged!" It'll be the talk of Equestria!
Well, gentleponies, I've finished another stack. The lessons in these worksheets are quite fascinating. Twilight? What's going on here?
Oh, just your protégé getting caught snooping in our office in disguise! Well, sort of.
Oh, honestly, Princess Twilight, envy does not look good on you.
I'm not envious! I know these two are up to something. I'm just trying to find out what.
The only pony I see who is up to something is the pony in this picture, and it is not the princess I know.
Well, it's about to be the princess all of Equestria knows.
Unless... you decided to drop the whole "uncover the scam" thing.
Then we'll rip this silly picture up and not let it completely and utterly ruin you and your school.
You can be generous with all sorts of things. Gifts, compliments, your time.
Hey, Eyepatch! Where's your eye patch? [gasps] Was your cover blown?
You could say that. Flim and Flam took a picture of me sneaking into their office.
Were we wearing our eye patch?
If I don't stop investigating, they're going to tell everypony that I'm trying to sabotage their school because I'm jealous.
But-But-But that's ridiculous!
I don't know. Maybe I am just upset that Star Swirl came here instead of my school. Flim and Flam may have turned over a new leaf. We should probably just go home.
Twilight, you are not the kind of pony to let your emotions cloud your judgment. If you think Flim and Flam are up to no good, you can't give up, even if their lessons really are impressive.
Wait, what?!
Flim and Flam are charging for these?
Well, they have to cover expenses, and Flam insists that everything extra goes to improving the school and—
This is the scam, isn't it?
Let's find out.
These lessons are so valuable. Are you sure I can't give you more?
Ah-ah-ah! Unnecessary! Being able to share them with a pony like you is our real reward. [to Destitute Pony] Oh, my. And you want to study alongside Star Swirl, hmm?
It's all I have.
Come back for the rest when you can afford it.
W-Wait! I'll sell the shirt off my back!
And that's the kind of determination that'll get you to the next level, student whose... name I know!
[whispering] Twilight, maybe I should take over the investigation. Think of your reputation!
My reputation isn't worth much if I won't risk it for what I think is right. Besides, I have a plan.
Well, brother of mine, we've got almost all the bits we need to expand our resort. If we add another level of classes and worksheets, we'll be there.
Maybe we should add two levels, just to be safe.
[sighs] It's a thing of beauty. But I was thinking. What if we added another extreme pool slide here?
Mmmm... Sure, as long as the pipes for the musical chocolate fountain go through... here.
But shouldn't it go closer to the pudding hot tub here?
Fair point, but— What?!
I knew your school was a scam!
Well, well, well, if it isn't the Princess of Jealousy. I guess we'll be going to the papers after all.
And I suppose I'll just lead your students into this secret room of bits and resort expansion plans!
Uhhhh... l-let's not get hasty. You have something on us. We have something on you. Let's just call it even.
I don't think so. You can destroy my reputation if you want, but using your students' bits to expand your resort is wrong, even if the lessons you teach are good ones.
Of course they're good. We copied them from your book.
We just skipped every other page. All the lessons, half the time!
[groans] Fine. If you really want to call it even, give back the bits and stop charging for my lessons. Then you can teach them as much as you like.
Nah!
Running a school is more work than we thought. Besides, we almost have everything we need.
I think not!
Plainity? My star pupil?
[affected voice] Not Plainity, but... [normal voice] Rarity!
Who?
We decided to bring somepony else here to listen to everything you just said!
[stutters] Hey, Star Swirl. We were just about to—
Return the bits you've collected from your students and close your school?
[gulps] Yeah. That.
[sighs] It seems I'll never stop learning from your example, Twilight. It is a valuable lesson to stand up for what you know is true. I wish I had known it, too.
Thanks for returning our bits. But how are we going to learn about friendship now?
Well, I can refer you to a fairly reputable establishment just outside of Ponyville. I'm quite certain the headmare would consider letting you in.
[reading] "Of course, if I ever go to a school again, I'll make sure it's yours. In friendship, Star Swirl."
I still don't understand how Flim and Flam could have gotten a copy of your book.
Uh, I finished straightening up in the library. Professor Rarity, I just wanted to make sure you're definitely keeping these.
But of course, darling. If there's one thing I learned at Friendship University, it is not to give up when you know what's right. And I know teaching friendship through sewing is right! I just need to figure out how.
Oh! Rarity! Just the pony I'm looking for! Can you come to Twilight's class with me? It won't take long.
Oh, I'd love to help, but I have to meet Rainbow Dash for our day of fun together.
Twilight wants to use you as an example for the students.
Ooh!
Your example is here! [laughs] Oh!
I thought I was the example.
You both are. Because together, you perfectly demonstrate my lesson on compromise in friendship. Rainbow Dash and Rarity have very different interests that keep them busy. But being friends is so important to them, they always manage to make time for each other.
[laughs nervously] Our day of fun was hard to plan, what with Rainbow Dash's extremely time-consuming and erratically scheduled Wonderbolts practice.
And Rarity's weird fashion seasons. She's working on her winter collection, and it's not even summer yet!
But you still found time to be together, and that's what counts. See, class? These ponies are models of true friendship in action.
Thanks for stopping by! Enjoy your day of fun!
Ooh! Ooh-ooh-ooh-ooh! What amazing stuff are you gonna do together?!
Aw, come on! I even said "shopping" that time!
Perfect! We'll go shopping first.
But I brought stuff for buckball to—
Are we supposed to be learning something here? 'Cause this doesn't sound like compromising at all.
Yeah, you guys have nothing in common. How can you be friends?
Even though Rainbow Dash and Rarity enjoy doing different things, there are plenty of reasons why they're friends.
Uh, like what?
[scoffs] We've always been friends.
Always?
Well, no. Not always. But for like a super long time.
And we know all the same ponies.
Um, is that it?
Uh, there was that time during the Cloudsdale Best Young Flyer Competition that I totally saved Rarity's life.
Yes! And I once proved Rainbow Dash's innocence to her beloved Wonderbolts when she was being framed for a mysterious incident.
Cool! What else?
Uh, look. It may seem like Rarity and Rainbow Dash don't have that much in common when you try to put it into words, but sometimes friendships can't be explained. You just have to see them in action to understand.
Actually, that's a great idea!
Just go about your day of fun as you normally would. You won't even know we're here!
[singsongy] Game on!
Rarity! You were supposed to be holding your bucket!
Good! 'Cause this time, I'm gonna try something new and super-intense!
Rarity! Are you even paying attention?!
What? Oh! I mean, of course! Uh, I held my bucket and everything!
But you have to catch the ball!
Really? Well, that sounds dangerous.
[quietly, to herself] Oh, forget it. She's never gonna understand the point of this game. [out loud] Buckball time is over!
[sighs] Finally!
Uhhh, see? They did something Rainbow Dash likes, so now it's time for something Rarity likes. Compromise!
Hmmm... I'm genuinely not sure. Are they too in style?
Uh, isn't that what you want them to be?
Oh, yes, yes. But they should be ahead of the curve. If they're in fashion right now, then they're practically already out.
That doesn't make any sense.
Hmmm... Perhaps I should get the stilettos instead. What do you think?
[scoffs] Unless you like tripping with every step, heels on a horse are pretty useless.
[nickers] Au contraire. They're perfect in a multitude of situations. Formal functions, afternoon teas, evening teas, high tea, tea by the sea, royal tea—
Can they clean up glitter? Ew! It's on my hooves! Are we done yet?! [groans] This is sooooo boring!
Rainbow Dash and Rarity are just, uh, showcasing an aspect of friendship called "banter", the playful and friendly exchange of remarks. [laughs nervously] It's all in good fun.
Ooh, I cannot wait! Collecting gemstones is my favorite!
Finally, something we can agree on! Treasure hunting!
See, everycreature? That didn't take long. Now they're having a great time together.
Ooh! Magnifique! This will be perfect for the emerald-encrusted romper I've been working on!
Cool! Now, what would be even cooler is if we could find a treasure chamber or something! Now, if I were a secret door, where would I be?
Ugh, Rainbow Dash! Could you please refrain from all of that racket? It's muddying my concentration.
[gasps] Look! A lever! [grunts] It's stuck! Come help me, Rarity!
[sighs] Just a moment.
[gasps] You ruined my gems!
Yeah, well, you ruined my treasure hunt!
Ugh! This wasn't about treasure! It was about finding gemstones for my winter collection!
Who cares about clothes?! We're supposed to be on an adventure together!
Uh-oh.
That... is... it! This "day of fun" is officially over!
Fine by me! Maybe I can spend some time doing something I actually like now!
[laughs nervously] Surely, you don't mean that. You're just having a little disagreement. [to students] Sometimes that happens between pals. But no matter what, they can always get past the problem and stay good friends.
I don't think we can. [to Rarity] You don't care about any of the things I like! It's always about you and your boring fashions!
Oh, puh-lease! You don't even give my interests a chance! You have absolutely no respect for the finer things! No respect, I tell you!
...And then there was the time Rainbow Dash called my Cloudsdale Couture Boutique idea "impractical"! Imagine that! Just because I needed Twilight to perform the butterfly wing spell on me whenever I wanted to deliver merchandise!
...And I told her a thousand times Pegasi don't even want restrictive heavy dresses! We need to be able to fly! Duh!
Not to mention the day I was wearing a really gorgeous hat, and Rainbow Dash didn't even notice!
The Wonderbolts show was ruined! Rarity's hat was blocking everypony's view!
Enough! Guidance counseling is for talking out your problems, not telling me everything that's ever happened in the history of Equestria! [groans] But I've learned sometimes talking isn't enough. You need to put yourselves in one another's shoes.
No way am I wearing those!
[groans] What I'm saying is we need a way to help you two reconnect. Follow me!
The library? And this helps us how?
You both love books. Rainbow Dash never stops talking about Daring Do adventures, and you're a huge fan of Shadow Spade mysteries.
Your point?
The perfect way for you two to reconnect as friends is to read each other's favorite book. I'll read them, too. Then we'll all discuss afterward. It'll be a "Good Friends Book Club". Okay? I'll bring snacks.
Ugh! Fine!
If you insist.
Great! We're all here! To start, why don't you two share one thing you liked about each other's books?
Okay. I'll go first. Uh, I really enjoy the part in Daring Do and the Razor of Dreams when Daring used a vicious cragadile as a raft, and then—
[giggles] Please.
Uh, what's so funny?
Oh, sorry. It's just that I find those action sequences so ridiculously over-the-top.
But they're real! You even met Daring Do!
Yes, but the book's descriptions just drag on, and what about those silly unpronounceable names? Doctor whozit-whatsit... [Spanish pronunciation] Caballeron?
Uh, tea, anypony? Cucumber sandwich? [laughs nervously] Or we could go over some nice friendly talking points.
[scoffs] Seriously?! Don't even get me started on those clothing descriptions in Shadow Spade! What a yawn fest!
[stutters] But... the outfit descriptions are an integral part of the plot of The Colt in Crimson: A Shadow Spade Mystery!
You see, if you didn't know that Sir Fluffingsworth von Radishfield wears only silk, double-breasted waistcoats, you'd never deduce that he, in fact, was the culprit!
W-Wait. He was?
[gasps] You didn't even read it!
[quietly, to herself] I can see I'm gonna need reinforcements.
Not my fault it's so boring and put me to sleep!
If you can't be bothered to read the thing I like, that just further illustrates the point that we have nothing in common anymore!
At least we agree on that! From now on, I'm only hanging out with ponies who get me!
Your drama can wait! Twilight needs help! Now!
[panting] Any luck?
No! It's goooone!
What's gone?
The Amulet of Aurora!
[gasps] One of the magical items you've been keeping for Princess Celestia?
That amulet can reverse the tides and summon tsunamis! If it falls into the wrong hooves, Equestria will be in grave danger!
Don't worry, Twilight! I know tons about searching for lost treasure!
And if I follow the culprit's clues, I'm certain I can find who took your amulet!
Thank you! I'll feel so much better knowing you two are looking for it together!
While we work on a locator spell. It's the perfect solution!
There appear to be no signs of damage to the surrounding artifacts, suggesting the thief did not leave in a hurry.
Rarity, your boots are leaving sparkles all over the floor!
Pfft! Those aren't from my boots. Mine are magenta, not blue. See?
I mean, really!
[panting] Turns out these boots were not "made for trotting," as advertised. Where are you going?! We promised Twilight we'd work together!
Don't you see? The Amulet of Aurora is made out of Azurantium!
Azurantium? You know! The same metal that the Amulet of Atonement from Daring Do book four is made from? It always leaves sparkles wherever it goes. Just like this, remember? It's from the book you just read!
[laughs nervously] That book! Yes! The one I-I just... just read! Ha-ha-ha!
Seriously?! After giving me all that grief, you didn't read mine either?!
Oopsie?
[groans] As soon as we find this amulet, we are done with each other!
Fine by me!
[panting] Ooh! Rainbow Dash, slow down! You're flying past important clues! Look, it's a print. But definitely not a hoof. Are those claw marks?
Who cares? I found a bigger clue!
I hope you don't expect me to... [shudders] ...wade through that.
Nah. It's too deep. We'll get stuck.
Ooh. Clever. What Daring Do book did you get that from?
Actually, I learned it at Scootaloo's Filly Guides camp.
[sighs] At least you can fly across.
[gasps, grunts] Nope. If one of those geysers burns off my wing feathers, I'll be out of the Wonderbolts for weeks. [groans] I could...
...try and slingshot my way through. But I'd need two perfectly placed trees, some stretchy rope, and a pith helmet. [groans] Too bad we can't do what Daring Do did in book four and find a cragadile for a raft.
Ta-daaa! The S.S. Cragadile, at your service!
Uh, that... is... awesome! Uh, I mean, it's all right, I guess.
How did you know how to do that?
Mmm. We may have been friends for a super-long time, but you don't know everything about me yet.
[gasps] The glitter trail! It's gone!
How are we supposed to find the Amulet of Aurora now?
[quietly] Owww. Ears. Why hoof-hoofs yell? Too, too loud.
[loudly] Sorry! What did you say?!
[quietly] Too, too loud.
I think it's a Bufogren. They have really sensitive ears. [whispering loudly] Did you happen to see anycreature with a sparkly thingy go this way?
Saw it.
His breath smells so bad, I can't think! But we can't hear him from back here. Now what?
Hmmm... [sniffs] Aha! I think I have the perfect solution. An old unicorn beauty trick. That is, if you can somehow procure us a tiny bit of cloud?
Now that I can do!
Ooh! It's adorable! [nose pinched] Um, excuse me, kind sir. I have a special treat for you in exchange for your information.
Ooh... What's that?
Owww!
Sorry, sorry. Enjoy.
[sniffs, sighs]  Good. Uh, now, which way did the sparkly thing go?
Up-up. Up there.
Thank you! [to Rainbow Dash] Well, what are you waiting for? Go on! Fly up there and get that amulet!
Uh, we're doing this together, remember?
Sorry, but I wasn't leaving you behind in that swamp.
[exhales] Thank you.
Huh. Maybe the key to unlocking this thing is in these inscriptions.
Or perhaps the key is right here!
I couldn't decide between the boots and the stilettos, so I got both!
High heels could do that?
And you called them "useless".
[sighs] I shouldn't have said that. Or made fun of the other stuff you like to do. Some of it's actually sorta neat.
I... owe you an apology, too. Buckball may not be my thing, but it's something you enjoy. And you're very good at it. I never should've treated your interests like they were worth less than mine.
Soooo... does this mean we're still friends?
I would very much like that. Now let's go find that amulet!
Wait! That tunnel leads to the... school? A secret passage! Awesome!
[gasps] Spikey-wikey! You stole the Amulet of Aurora?!
Not exactly.
You mean, this was a setup to make us get along?
Sorry to interfere, but you both...
...reeeeeally needed it.
So even though you don't like any of the same stuff, you two are friends again?
Heh. Always. I think we just needed a teensy reminder.
Yeah. We don't have to love the exact same things to have fun together. I mean, imagine if we did! How boring would that be?
When we give each other a chance to share the different things we enjoy, it can be surprisingly wonderful! [sighs] Too bad we wasted our day of fun.
We still have a little time left. You wanna... go hit the shops? I could actually use your help picking out some new buckball gear.
Do I?! But only if you help me choose some buckball fan attire, so I can cheer for my favorite player at the drop of a fabulous hat!
Uh, yeah! Let's go already!
[to students] See? Good friends always work through their differences.
[laughs] Even if it takes a little help.
Huh? [gasps] Some poor creature's in trouble! We have to help it! Oh, listen to that suffering! It must be in horrible agony!
Ooh! It sounds like a herd of injured chimerae! [pants] Or it's Cerberus with snifflitis in two of its heads and kennel cough in its third. Or maybe it's—
Pinkie Pie?
Ugh. At least no animal is suffering. Right, Angel?
[laughs nervously] Well, until now.
What is that thing?
It's called a yovidaphone. It's from Yakyakistan, where it's actually quite popular.
Is it supposed to sound like that?
Not exactly. It's known to produce a fairly complicated, melodically rich, and harmonious tone.
Are you sure we're talking about the same thing?
[panting] Phew! And that's with only a few days of practice! Can you believe it?!
Yes. Yes, I can.
I can honestly say I've never heard anything like it in my life.
Well, if you enjoyed listening to my playing half as I enjoyed playing my playing, then I should totally play more! That way, we'll be even!
Oh, I don't think that's necessary, Pinkie.
Please. Don't.
There's a chance I may have missed a note or two here or there, but I just love playing so much! [sighs] You complete me.
Well, I, for one, am glad you're having so much fun with your new hobby.
[not listening] Uh-huh. Sure.
And it's great that you're learning a new skill, and... and you're just waiting for me to finish talking so you can start playing again, aren't ya?
[sighs, to Angel Bunny] It's okay. She's gone.
Anypony else think that sounded like an apple core cut up in a pulp grinder?
Apple-solutely! Uh, absolutely.
Okay, so maybe she isn't good yet. But she's our friend, and we should be supportive.
She just started playin'. She's bound to get better. Right?
Yeah, we just need to be supportive of her practicing... [groans] So the getting-better part happens as fast as possible.
[sighs] You're absolutely right, Spike. Sometimes it is nice to get out of the library and be in the sun.
Especially when you take the library with you.
[burbles, sighs] We need to do somethin' about Pinkie Pie's playin'!
Like, now!
Is it really that bad?
Does this answer your question?
Uh, a trophy?
For second place. Second! Place! All because of Pinkie's playing!
And thanks to her fruit-blastin' melodies, I got an orchard full of nothin' but applesauce! And it ain't even saucin' season!
And just look what her playing did to poor Fluttershy!
I mean, I know we said we should all be supportive, but Pinkie's been playin' for moons now, and she's not gettin' any better.
Yeah! If anything, she's gotten worse!
Okay, maybe we can just pretend she's really good, and then I'll find a spell that will—
Oh, no, no, no! We're not goin' through that again! Remember how well it worked out when you weren't honest with Celestia about her actin' ability?
[groans] You're right. We'll just have to tell Pinkie Pie she's not very good at the yovidaphone.
Well, there's no time like the present.
Phew! Huh, that's weird. I coulda sworn this place was packed a second ago. Hey, guys! Can I favor you all with a tune? I take requests!
Actually, we do have a request, and yeah, it involves your yovidaphone.
You mean the thing I love more than anything else in Equestria? My sun, my moon, my stars, my everything? Ooh! Tell me, tell me, tell me!
All right. In all honesty... Uh, in all honesty... Rarity has somethin' to say!
Pinkie, please listen to Rainbow Dash.
Ugh, fine! So, Pinkie, remember when we all were shocked to discover Princess Celestia wasn't so good at acting?
Yeah, she was awful! But that's kind of a random thing to bring up. I thought you wanted to talk about my yovidaphone playing.
Well, it's, uh... It's just... You need to know, uh... Twilight?
[sighs] Pinkie, we all support you, but we're afraid you're just not good at the yovidaphone, and none of us want you to waste your time on something you can't do well.
Oh. [upbeat] Why didn't you just say so?
[sighs] We were all really nervous to tell you.
Why? It's just a silly instrument. Well, lunch break's over. Gotta get back to the bakery. Those apple turnovers aren't gonna apple themselves! [whistles gleefully] No more yovidaphone playing for me-e-e!
Wow. She took that so much better than I thought.
[sighs] Another beautiful day in Ponyville.
Uh, Twilight, when was the last time you saw Pinkie Pie?
Hmmm, not since we told her to stop playing the yovidaphone. I'm still surprised with how well she took it.
I don't think she took it as well as you think she took it.
Top of the morning to ya!
Is it morning? I hadn't noticed.
That's not good.
There you are! We've been looking all over for you!
It turns out Pinkie may not have taken our critique of her yovidaphone playing in the spirit with which it was intended.
I saw.
There's gotta be something we can do.
I'm sure there is, Spike. We just have to figure out what.
[sighs] I don't get it. So she's no good at playing the yovidaphone. What's the big deal? There are so many other things she's really good at doing.
Yeah! Not bein' able to play the yovidaphone is nothin' compared to all the things she can do well.
And that's exactly what we'll show her! I bet if we get her to do the stuff she likes and is good at doing, she'll cheer right back up and forget all about the yovidaphone.
Hoo-whee! That's a great idea!
Let's get started. Apparently, there's not a moment to lose.
So, I'm guessing nopony had any success?
[sighs] My party cannon idea was a real dud.
Don't blame yourself. None of us did any better.
Well, not to worry. I came up with the perfect solution. Instead of trying to remind her what she's good at, we'll remind her what she's best at. And that's being our friend. We're gonna throw her a Pinkie Pie Appreciation Party!
That's a wonderful idea! If anypony needs to know how much she's appreciated, it's Pinkie Pie.
We can get the whole town involved, just so she can see what a good friend she is to everypony.
Then I hereby officially declare today Pinkie Pie Appreciation Day!
Now this is perfection!
Yeah! If anything could help Pinkie Pie cheer up and make her forget about her yovidaphone, this is definitely it!
Sure is! Okay, who's gonna get her?
No need. Gummy's on it. In fact, there he is now!
Uh, Gummy? You were supposed to bring Pinkie Pie. What happened?
Is she still coming?
Fluttershy, can you understand what he's saying?
I could... if he was talking.
Let me try something. [slowly, loudly, and deliberately] Gummy! Where is Pinkie Pie?!
Maybe we should just go and get her.
What in tarnation is goin' on here?!
This decor is dreadful.
And all of Pinkie's stuff is... gone?!
It is a puzzle.
[deadpan] Excuse me.
Oh, yes, of course.
Um, Maud? Can I ask you a question?
[deadpan] You just did.
Well, can I ask you a question?
[deadpan] You just did.
[groans] Fine! How about if I ask you a— Wait.
Oh, for goodness' sakes! Maud. All of your sister's things are gone. Explain.
[deadpan] No, they're not. They're right here.
Have you seen Pinkie Pie?
Lots of times. I grew up with her.
Okay, let's try this a different way. Why did you pack up all of Pinkie's things?
[deadpan] She asked me to.
What?!
[deadpan] Pinkie told me to pack up her room and take everything to the rock farm.
What?!
[deadpan] She said she wouldn't need them since she's moving to Yakyakistan.
What?!
Terribly sorry, Maud. Must've misheard you. It almost sounded like you said Pinkie's [chuckling] moved to Yakyakistan!
Uh, Rarity? She did say that.
Uh, terribly sorry, Applejack. Must've misheard you. It almost sounded like you said [chuckling] she did say that!
Maud, I don't understand. Why would Pinkie leave Ponyville?
Yeah! Why would she want to go live with the yaks?
[deadpan] She said without the yovidaphone, her life had no meaning, and at least in Yakyakistan, she could listen to the masters play. She hoped that would give her some semblance of happiness.
Well, no! No-no-no-no-no-no-no! That will not do!
I say we go to Yakyakistan right now and make her come back home!
We can't just march up there and tell Pinkie what to do.
[tearing up] But... we didn't even get a chance to say goodbye!
Well, we may not be able to go to Yakyakistan and force her to come home, but we could go say goodbye... and if we happen to mention how much her friendship means to us, and how much we'd miss her if she were gone forever, and then she decided to come back home on her own...
Then what are we waiting around here for?! Let's get going to Yakyakistan!
We're almost there.
Pinkie's gotta be around here somewhere.
But where?
Is that...?
The music of the yovidaphone.
Are you sure? Because that actually sounds kinda... good.
Oh, I'm sure. Come on.
Huh. Not what I expected.
Shhhh!
Oh, sorry.
Shhhhhhh!
[hushed] I said I was sorry!
[hushed, gasps] There she is!
[gulps] [despondent] Gimme another.
But pony already had twenty-five ice—
I said, gimme another!
[grunts] Pardon me!
Excuse us.
Oh, uh, sorry!
[despondent] I feel nothing.
Maybe we can help with that.
[despondent] Oh. Hey. What are you guys doing here?
Just hear us out.
We respect your decision to move to Yakyakistan.
But we just wanted to remind you how much you mean to us, and how much we'd miss you if you decided to move here for—
[despondent] Fine. I'll move back to Ponyville.
Wow. That was a lot easier than I thought. We're awesome!
Pinkie, what's wrong?
[despondent] That's what's wrong. I thought coming here and listening to real yovidaphone playing would make me happy.
[despondent] It makes me feel worse. I'm never gonna sound like that.
Yovidaphone fan pony watch instrument while Yigrid visit little yak's room?
[despondent] Eh. If I can't play it, I might as well do menial chores for those who can.
Okay, so Pinkie Pie is obviously still miserable.
Oh, I can't bear to see her like this.
Indeed. But what else can we do?
Yeah, we've tried everything!
Maybe not. Look!
[stifled giggling] Whoops! Sorry!
I forgot what an awful yovidaphoner I am.
Playing it makes you so happy.
[wistfully] [sighs] It sure does. I mean... it did.
Then you should never stop.
So say we all!
Absolutely.
But... you were the ones who told me to stop because I wasn't good.
And we were wrong.
Playing makes you happy.
And as long as it makes you happy, it doesn't matter how good you are!
So get up there and show these yaks how it's done!
[stage whisper] I don't know if you've noticed, but the audience are all yaks, and they kind of have "issues" with things that aren't perfect! Like my playing!
Pinkie Pie, you get up on that stage and play. If these yaks don't like it, they'll have to answer to us!
Well, okay... If you all say so...
[clears throat] Ladies and gentleyaks! Performing for her very first time here, let's give a big round of stomps for... Pinkie Pie!
[clears throat] Um, hi! So, uh, any yaks here from out of town?
Uhhh, I kinda wasn't expecting this.
Me, neither.
[stomps] Oh, pony play good set!
You think so? Even though it wasn't perfect?
Yovidaphone is instrument of happiness. Playing yovidaphone make pony happy. Pony playing is perfect!
Well if that's the case, lemme play you the song I just wrote two seconds ago! It's called "I've Got the Best Most Supportive Friends a Pony Could Ever Ask For"! [aside] It's a working title.
And a-one...
And a-two...
And a you-know-what-to-do!
[dramatically] I don't know, folks. She's been in there a long time!
Do you suppose the Terrifying Trunk Escape is too much for her?! What if the Great and Powerful Trixie can't—?!
Escape?!
But if you're there, who's in here?
Why, our volunteer, of course!
[coughs] Crabapple surprise! You shoulda oughta tell a pony before ya go a-poofin' 'em around the stage!
Trixie, that was an amazing show!
Flurry Heart and I loved it! I'm so glad we decided to come. You two have a real chemistry.
The Terrifying Trunk Escape does require a grrrreat and powerful assistant.
The way you two work together, it's like you've known each other as long as Twilight and I have.
It was pretty fun.
Of course it was! There's nothing better than a bond with another pony. You can share all kinds of things.
I think we'll stick to the stage magic for now.
The Great and Powerful Trixie doesn't chant.
[sighs] As much as I love my one-pony show, it's always nice to come to Ponyville and perform with my great and powerful assistant. Cadance is right. We do work well together!
Doing a show with you is almost as much fun as counseling students at Twilight's school! [gasps] Which I'm supposed to be doing right now!
See ya later.
Hoo' Excuse me, Ms. Powerful...
[giggles] Usually, ponies just call me Trixie. But "Ms. Powerful" has a nice ring.
Hoo' From here to Saddle Arabia, I have seen nothing that compares with your wondrous show. Uh, would you consider blessing my homeland with it?
I was just about to set out on tour. [grunts] But Saddle Arabia is much farther than my usual route. [grunts] Ugh!
[laughs] And, uh, my caravan might not be suited for an extended tour.
Hoo' Mine is new and quite spacious. If it would help persuade you, I would happily trade it for yours.
Trade it?! Heavens, no! This is more than just some great and powerful wagon you see before you! It is shelter. It is transportation. It is my only friend on the long and lonely nights on the road.
Hoo' Very well. Then I must see as many of your performances as I can. If I cannot convince you to bring your tour to Saddle Arabia, I must be prepared to relate its magnificence to your many fans there.
"Many fans", you say? [laughs] Well, I suppose I could consider the trip.
Hoo' Wonderful! I look forward to seeing you on the road! And if you change your mind about the caravans, my offer remains open.
Hmmm...
It's just so far away. Of course, I love visiting new and exciting places. I am a traveling magician after all.
Hmmm. Sounds like your mind's made up.
Not quite. The road is a lonely place. And this trip even more so. I was hoping I might convince my grrrrreat and powerful assistant to come along?
Really?
Of course! You're not just my assistant and my counselor. You're also my friend. And what's better than a road trip with friends?
Nothing! This will be the best magical road trip ever!
I should probably get somepony to cover my student counseling duties while we're gone.
Trixie, are you all right?
One caravan for two all set! Oh. You brought luggage. [nervous laugh] I mean, of course you brought luggage!
You bet I did! Everything two ponies need for the road trip of their lives! Three one-thousand-piece puzzles, one copy of Dragon Pit – the best board game in the history of ponies – my famous collection of campfire spices, and an inflatable raft. Did I forget something? I could pop back to the castle and grab it.
Oh, no. It isn't that.
Yeah, maybe we don't need the raft.
[sighs] We just needed a little great and powerful rrrrreorganization! [struggling] Now, everything... fits.. just... fine!
[sighs] Who am I kidding? My wagon is too small for us. I understand if you're having second thoughts.
Second thoughts? [scoffs] Are you kidding? This wagon isn't small. It's... eh... cozy. And there's no such thing as too cozy.
Well, all right then! I guess it's time to hit the road! [struggling] I'll... start us off...
[coughs] Okay. Maybe there is such a thing as too cozy.
You're sure you wouldn't rather ride?
I'm sure.
And you're not backing out? The two of us sleeping in that cozy caravan could get tricky.
Trixie, there's plenty of high-quality inns to stay at on the way. Don't worry about it. I'm not backing out of the greatest and most powerful road trip bonding experience two ponies could ever have.
Well, when you put it like that, I'm actually kind of excited!
Me, too! [sighs] Thank goodness we're not like Twilight or the others. They'd probably sing a song about it.
We're off on the road to friendship Our ride might be tiny and small
Beats walking though, eh, Trix?
I am walking.
But road trips are a great way, we've been told, to get along
I'm glad we're sticking to it, we've already got a song
We're off on the road to friendship Side by side, just like peas in a pod
Our bond of friendship is stronger than this tour's demands
Hoo' My offer to trade caravans still stands!
Wait, what did he say?
Nothing!
We're so tight, we can't move around I guess we're stuck together 'cause we're friendship bound
Sure is great traveling with you, buddy!
You too, buddy!
We're off on the road to friendship
Yes, we are!
We've each got the other to blame
Any trip can be exhausting if you make a fuss
But we get on so well that's there no way that could be us
We're off on the road to friendship And there's nowhere that we'd rather be
Was that off-key?
In summer, winter, spring, and fall, we're friends throughout the year
For untold seasons yet to come,  our friendship will be here
For nine, at least!
We're so tight, we can't move around
[quickly] Like a race where you tie your hooves together and you have to move in perfect synchronization to win!
We're friendship boooooound
[quickly] Or like a buddy movie where the two protagonists can't get away from each other because they're wearing hoof-cuffs!
We're friendship boooooound!
Ooh, the marketplace. Perfect! I've learned the hard way that life on the road requires very specific supplies. And we only have so many bits. So we'll have to spend them wise...
...ly.
[sighs] Sorry about wasting bits on street food.
Oh, it's fine. Falafel bonding, right? [laughs] Besides, we still have enough for... haycakes and juice.
Um, why don't we go there?
Oh, no-no-no. I always buy my haycakes here.
So we're just going to wait in line for hours? Uh, which is totally cool! Waiting-in-line bonding! Right?
After our falafel purchase, we weren't able to get everything on my list. But we are definitely set for breakfast.
And I'm sure we'll find out that waiting in that super-long line was worth it.
A few hiccups always happen. We'll be back on the road to friendship after a good night's sleep.
Mrs. We're all full!
Uh, I'm sure we'll find something.
Nope.
Sorry.
All full!
Hoo' Ah, the Glowpaz Festival. Somnambula is no doubt filled to the brim. Luckily, travelers such as ourselves have our caravans.
[laughs, to Starlight] You said there'd be plenty of places to stay. "Don't even worry about it," you said. Ya might've thought to make a reservation!
Um, I've been with you singing and standing in line. When would I have done that?
I don't know. But I'm starting to think you aren't as great and powerful an assistant as I thought!
So you just brought me along to do your legwork?
[sighs] No. Of course not. I'm sorry. I'm just frustrated. I was really looking forward to a relaxing night in a nice room.
[sighs] Me, too. But since there's literally no room at the inns, I guess it's lucky we've got the wagon.
[unenthusiastically] Sleeping-in-tight-quarters bonding.
[unenthusiastically] Yaaaaay.
Is there something I can do to make things more comfortable for you?
You could get rid of this junk.
Yes, well, before we throw away the magical items it's taken me years to collect, we could try switching hammocks.
Fine.
[gasps] Hmm? [whispering] Starlight! Starlight! I think there's a wild animal outside!
Starlight?
Starlight!
[startled noises] What?
I'm sorry. Your snoring is a bit, um...
Loud? [nervous laugh] Yeah, I do that. I had my village convinced we were being attacked by bears every night.
[laughs, clears throat] But we probably need a better solution here.
[sleepily muttering] Ladies and gentleponies... Great and Powerful Trixie... amazing feats...
Seriously?!
[sleepily muttering] Prepare to be amazed...
[grumpily] Sleep well?
[grumpily] Sure did.
Is, uh, that the last of the haycakes?
[chomps] Oh. Yeah. Sorry.
It's fine.
I don't suppose there's any more juice.
[glugs] Ahhh! Nah. I guess we'll have to resupply.
Hoo' What a glorious morning! I can't tell you how much I am looking forward to the first show of your tour!
Is he gonna be following us for the whole time?!
I do not know.
[flatly] She's been in there a long time. Do you suppose the Terrifying Trunk Escape is too much for a pony who drinks all the juice and talks non-stop in her sleep?! What if the Great and Powerful Trixie can't...
Sleep?! Because her roommate snores like an ursa major?!
[flatly] But if you're there, who's in here?
"Cortland": There's not much room in here!
At least you don't have to sleep in it with another pony!
Hoo' [claps weakly] This show is much better in Ponyville.
Oh. Would you like the last carrot? I know how fond you are of eating the last of things.
Oh, no. It might make me thirsty, and we don't have anything to drink. So...
The good news is I'm so exhausted, I could sleep through a stampede of wild boars! Which, you'll be delighted to know, is only slightly louder than your snoring.
Well, I'm looking forward to rehearsing the act with you all night. So diligent of you to go over it and over it in your sleep.
[through gritted teeth] Practice makes perfect.
Not today, it didn't.
Well, I'm sorry you're so miserable!
Really?! Because if you wanted to make things more comfortable, you could always pare down a bit!
Well, since you're so concerned about space, you can have it all! I'll sleep under the stars, where at least the wild animals will be QUIETER THAN YOU!
Hoo' I do not mean to interrupt, but it seems there is trouble on the road to friendship.
[derisive laugh] Ya think?!
[gasps] Where's my wagon?!
I traded it to that pony from Saddle Arabia for his. He even threw in a pair of robes.
You what?!
I traded the old, worn-out wagon that was too small for us, for this nice spacious one that we can both enjoy.
[stammering] Who said you could do that?!
Nopony. I just did it. [sighs] Now we both have plenty of room, and you didn't even have to give anything away.
Au contraire. I did give something away! I gave away my wagon... and my best friend!
Oh! I'm sorry! I didn't realize you were better friends with that beat-up old wagon than you are with me!
Well, it's easy when the wagon is a better friend! It would've never traded you away!
That's ridiculous.
Oh, it is ridiculous. In fact, this whole tour is ridiculous! I don't even know why I invited you in the first place!
Well, maybe I should just head home!
I think that's a very good idea! And you can take this horrible giant caravan with you!
Fine!
Good!
[grunting] Come on! Whoa!
Hoo' Goodness! Oh, Ms. Powerful. Eh, but where is your assistant? I had hoped providing you with a more comfortable means of conveyance would allow you to once more dazzle the crowds with mystifying feats of magic.
Normally, that sort of flattery would suffice. But today, we must discuss your dishonest and unfair procurement of my wagon!
Hoo' I desired your wagon and provided one of equal and better value in return. It seems like a perfectly honest and fair trade to me.
Unfortunately, it is more nuanced than that!
Hoo' I'm sure it is, but I am eager to set out. If you'll excuse me.
Ha! We'll just see about that!
Hoo' You know, even if I was willing to reverse the trade, you don't have my caravan to offer in return.
[grumbles] Details!
[struggling] You all seemed... a lot less threatening when there were two of us!
[gasps, yells] This place is awful! How did I not see it before?!
"Rainy Day": Hey! It's one of those traveling ponies!
"Snow Violet": Your song really inspired us! We decided we need to head off on the road to friendship, too!
"Rainy Day": It sure beats the road to deliveries!
"Snow Violet": Yeah! Sometimes traveling together is hard!
"Rainy Day": You reminded us we could also make it fun! Thanks again! Woo-hoo!
Hoo' Steaming hot beverage?
Thank you. No.
What are you two doing?
Taking a stand! By lying down! Not that you care, Wagon-Trader-Away-er!
Hoo' I'm afraid I'm still not interested, despite your assistant's convenient appearance.
Trixie, I came back to apologize. I should never have traded away the wagon. It wasn't mine to trade. It belongs to my friend.
Hoo' Hmmm. If you truly were friends, I suppose I'd be honor-bound to reverse the trade.
Okay! Fine! We're friends! Best friends who share a deep bond who weren't prepared for the emotional challenges of traveling. Happy?!
Hoo' I'm still unconvinced. Perhaps you could prove your friendship.
How?
Uh, we could do our friendship chant!
Oh, right... Our world-famous chant of friendship that we do all the time because we're such great friends.
[out of sync] Magic, tra-magic... poof of smoke... want to wave your hooves... and tell a... little joke!
Hoo' [coughs] That was the worst friendship chant I have ever heard! And you two were clearly making it up as you went. But only true friends would be willing to act so ridiculous for one another.
So you'll give back the wagon?
Hoo' Though I'd suggest heading back to Ponyville. I'm not sure Saddle Arabia is ready for... uh, this.
That's fair.
I'm sorry your Saddle Arabian tour was ruined.
Honestly, I don't think I could've stood one more second on the road. At a certain point, I don't even like traveling with myself.
It is a lot harder than I thought. Still, I'm glad we tried. Mostly so we know not to do it again.
I think it's made our friendship greater and more powerful than ever!
"Cortland": [grumbles] You know, there's actually plenty of room in here for one pony to nap. Is the show over?
Order, order, everypony! I hereby call to order this meeting of the Rainbow Dash Fan Club!
First order of business – [quickly] Let's-celebrate-the-one-and-only-Rainbow-Dash-yay-she's-amazing-now-if-there's-nothing-else-that-concludes-this-meeting-of-the-Rainbow-Dash-Fan-Club-thank-you-all-for-coming-any-questions?!
Huh?
Meeting adjourned!
I'd like to call to order the first ever meeting of the newest and most exciting club – of which I am the president, founding, and only member – the Washouts Fan Club!
Oh, hey, Scootaloo. I was just in the neighbor— Oh! What's this? Did I interrupt your fan club meeting?
Hey! What are you doin' here?
I could ask you the same question!
Oh, uh, y'know... mmm... s-s-stuff. Uh, definitely not starting a new fan club or anything.
Ha! It's no use pretending! I heard everything when I was outside eavesdropping, like I do for every meeting!
You eavesdrop on every meeting? That's weird.
Well, sure it sounds weird when you say it out loud. And I probably shouldn't because eavesdropping is wrong, but still. Why are you starting a new fan club?
I just think maybe it's time for me to explore other fan clubs.
[gasps] What is a "The Washouts"?
Only the newest, and greatest, and only stunt troupe in Equestria!
Stunt troupe?
"Twenty bajillion"?!
They do all sorts of extreme stunts that focus on daredevilry and sheer guts rather than boring old flight and formation junk.
"Boring old flight and formation junk"?!
Are you just repeating everything I say?
Only because my brain feels like it's strapped to one of those rockets about to explode.
So you do get it! Aren't they awesome?!
Can you believe she actually said that?!
Pfft, well, yeah! Eavesdropping on every meeting is kinda weird.
I mean, she basically said that the Wonderbolts aren't cool! And... And it kinda sounded like she didn't think I was cool either. But, peh, we all know that's crazy! I mean, I'm definitely not worried about her looking up to somepony else. Heh. Nope. Not! At! All!
Well, I'd understand if you were. It'd be like if Apple Bloom started lovin' bananas more than apples. [laughs, sotto voce] Y'all tell me if that ever happens, ya hear?
But what could the Washouts possibly have that I don't?!
Why don't you find out?
They're doing a show in Ponyville this weekend?!
Wow! They do look pretty amazing... uh, -ly unamazing. [nervous laugh] Trying so hard to look amazing is what I mean.
Awww. I knew we shoulda lined up last night.
Look at this! It's a total Wonderbolts ripoff!
What do you mean? The show hasn't even started yet.
Yeah, but look at what we're sitting on.
Hello?! The Wonderbolts have bleachers, too! We practically invented sitting on bleachers!
Ugh!
And look at that! Popcorn and cotton candy?! Ripoff!
Huh? Yeeeeeeeaaaahhh!
This is the time! This is the place! This is the team! This is... the Washouts!
Mmmm! Quality confetti cannon work.
Oh, yeah!
Say it with me now, the Washouts' official motto...
Leap before you look!
Woo-hoo!
Lame.
Oh!
Remember, ponies. While they're amazingly awesome, the Washouts are highly trained professionals in protective fire-proof flight suits! Do NOT try this at home!
Whoa. Come on, come on! She's not gonna make it!
That... was... insane! Woo-hoo!
I told you!
I mean... [clears throat] It was pretty cool. Who are these guys?
I can't just go up and talk to them.
You can if you're with me. After all, one of the reasons there's a Rainbow Dash fan club is because I'm fearless. Observe.
Hey!
Uh, so as a fellow aerobatic professional, I really enjoyed your show. Heh. Actually, you might recognize me since I'm a... pause for dramatic effect... a Wonderbolt.
[Australian accent] Ha! Join the club.
O... kay...
No. I mean, literally. Join the club. We're called "The Washouts" because we all used to be Wonderbolts just like you. Heh. Until we "washed out".
No way!
Yep. [sighs] Name's Rolling Thunder. I got booted out of Wonderbolt Academy because of "flagrant disregard for hazardous weather". Pfft! If doing barrel rolls through nine hundred million volts of electricity in a raging thunderstorm is wrong, then I don't wanna be right.
Cool!
Ha. This 'ere's Short Fuse.
Ah, nice to meet you.
What's your story?
ANGER ISSUES! GET OFF MY BACK!
Uhhh... Okay. So, who's the leader?
Only the most reckless ex-Wonderbolt of all time.
[gasps] Lightning Dust!
Rainbow Dash!
Scootaloo. I'm Scootaloo. Hi.
Lightning Dust! I should've known you were the brains behind a crazy idea like the Washouts! Or should I say, "lack of brains"!
You two really know each other? Oh, my gosh! This is so cool!
Your "friend" got me kicked out of the Wonderbolts.
Oh. That's, uh, less cool.
And it was the best thing that ever happened to me! Great to see you, wingpony! I heard you're a full-fledged Bolt now.
Yeah, well, I'm still—
Mad at me? Look, was it wrong of me to endanger the lives of your friends? Yeah. But, hey, now I only endanger these knuckleheads.
C'mon, you know you miss me. Me and her, we blew everypony out of the sky.
Really?
Actually, yeah, really! All that wind was totally dangerous, but we had fun, right? Two fastest times on the Dizzitron!
If I remember correctly, I had you beat by half a second.
Only because when I went, I cranked up the dizziness factor.
Well, I'm glad it all worked out. Your show was pretty dynamite.
[to Scootaloo] Wanna know the secret? We basically ignore everything the Wonderbolts ever taught us about safety.
Well, we do have safety rules for a reason.
Don't listen to her, kid. All their "rules" were just ways of keeping their little club exclusive so they could feel good about themselves.
It's not about making anypony feel bad. It's about finding the best flyers. The best of the best.
I started the Washouts because I believe anypony can be the best of the best. You know, Rolling Thunder is gonna be out for a while.
Ah, during the finale, I caught the old hind leg in the Crushinator Jaws of Smashalot! Patent pending.
There's a spot on the team if you wanna join up.
I appreciate the offer, but I'm already a Wonderbolt.
I'll do it! Can I do it?!
Uh, lemme think. No!
[scoffs] I wasn't asking you!
Awww, you're cute. But technically, you haven't washed out of the Bolts, which is kinda our thing.
And also, no!
Oh, what if I joined and dropped out super quick?!
That's it! You're comin' with me!
Where are we going?
To hear what the actual Wonderbolts think about you joining just to drop out for the Washouts!
Say hi to Spitfire for me!
Ever seen two simultaneous inverse displacement rolls before?
[scoffs] Would've been a lot cooler if you had the Crushinator Jaws of Smashalot, patent pending.
You... What?! [to Spitfire] See? This is what I was telling you about.
I got this. [to Scootaloo] You know what happens when something goes wrong with the Crushinator Jaws of Smashalot?
Patent pending?
You end up in a full body wing-and-hoof cast drinkin' through a straw!
But with enough practice—
Practice?! Well, la-dee-doodle-dah! Lemme give you a different scenario. You're probably saying to yourself, "I'm young. I'm strong. I'm gonna go out there and stunt some tricks with my new friend Lightning Dust!" Well, I'm here to tell ya that if ya play that game, you're gonna find out it's pretty hard to "stunt tricks" in a full body wing-and-hoof cast drinkin' through a straw!
I think she gets the poi—
I'm not finished! Listen, I get it, kid. I used to be like you, tellin' myself, "I'm gonna touch the sky!"
I don't—
Well, whoop-dee-doodle-doo! You think you got it made in the shade? Well, things are gonna be pretty shady indeed when you can't go out in the sun, 'cause you're in a full body wing-and-hoof cast drinkin' through a straw! Do I make myself clear?!
[shakily] Uh-huh...
Excellent. Have a hat.
Uh... Heh. Sorry that was a little... intense. I just wanna make sure you don't get hurt. That way, you can follow in my hoofsteps. Heh. Everypony's dream, right?
More like "follow your wingflaps".
Same difference.
[sarcastically] Thanks, super-talented flyer, for clearing up what I should do.
Clearing things up is one of my specialties. Now, come on. Let's go rip up all your Washout posters into tiny pieces and throw 'em off a cliff.
I just thought of a great way to raise awareness for your original fan club. You know, the one about me?
How about a silent auction where every item is just a picture of yours truly? [laughs] Nah! I'm just kidding.
That makes me seem too egotistical, doesn't it? Oh, oh! Maybe if they're framed, it's like, "Wow, she's so humble!" Ya think? Scootaloo?
Uh, Scootaloo?
Anypony seen Scootalo—
Ow! My fault, my fault! Sorry, I— Twilight?
[groans] Sorry. I was just... um...
Please tell me you got that stuff so you could rip it up and throw it off a cliff.
They were doing an autograph session before practice.
Seriously?! [groans] You haven't seen Scoot, have you?
Actually...
I can't believe Scootaloo ditched me to watch them practice! Why can't she see how dangerous they are?!
That's kind of the whole draw. It's exciting.
But it's like the harder I try to convince Scoot they're dangerous, the more she likes them!
You can't control her actions. Only yours. Teach her what's safe and what isn't, like a good role model. Then hope she makes the right decisions.
But what if she chooses them over me? She's gonna get hurt!
I think I know somepony else who might get hurt if that happens.
Um, maybe you're right. But this isn't about me. I'm just worried about Scoot.
Wow. You're really workin' hard on this new stunt. [chomps, spits] What kind of sorry excuse for a tomato sandwich is this?!
Sorry, Dash. Autograph session's over. Unless you wanna buy Short Fuse's limited edition half-eaten tomato sandwich.
I'm not signing that abomination!
You haven't seen Scootaloo, have you?
Ohhhh, isn't she that pony that used to respect you?
[growls] I'd appreciate you helping me find her so I could apologize for trying to make her quit liking you.
[laughs] Oh, I'm pretty sure she still likes us.
Lightning Dust, I know we go way back, but I can't let her do this!
I don't need you standing up for me!
Obviously, you do! Because you can't see how dangerous this is! Do you not remember what Spitfire said?
Ugh. Lemme guess. [imitating Spitfire] You'll be in a full-body wing-and-hoof cast drinkin' through a straw!
That doesn't even sound like Spitfire.
That's it! We're leaving!
Just because I look up to you doesn't mean I have to be you! But based on your definition of what makes somepony great, I have bad news. I'll never be the best of the best or a Wonderbolt! Because I! Can't! Fly! Is that what you wanted to hear? But not being able to fly doesn't mean I can't do something awesome! Like strapping my scooter to a multi-stage liquid-fueled rocket and jumping twenty-two wagons lined up in front of a roaring crowd!
That was awfully specific.
That's 'cause it's what she'll be doing in the show tonight. Half off for princesses! [whispering] Bring your friends!
Scootaloo, are you sure that's what you really wanna do?
Absolutely. [to Rainbow] And there's nothing you can do to stop me!
You're right. You're your own foal, and you have to make your own decisions.
Good! Because I already have!
Hoo-wee! Looks like all of Ponyville is here. Except for Rainbow Dash.
And here to introduce the most dangerous stunt we've ever performed, it's your fearless captain, L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-L-Lightning Dust!
In just a moment, the newest member of the Washouts will be rocket-sledding down that hill, up that ramp, and over all twenty-two wagons to land on the other side in one piece! Heh. If she's lucky.
Put your hooves together for Half-Pint Dynamite!
Lightning Dust, I have to tell you. I actually started Equestria's first Washouts fan club! As far as I know. So this is a real honor, ma'am! Uh, do I call you "ma'am"?
You land this jump, you can call me whatever you want.
Wow. That sure is...
Dangerous? Nah! Well, maybe a little.
Has anypony tested it before?
Where's the fun in that?
There's m-more?!
You're not thinking of backing out, are you?
No! I'm just thinking about drinking through straws.
Are you the president of my fan club or not?
Of course! It's just—
You wouldn't wanna get impeached for dishonoring my wishes, would you?
I... Is that a thing?
Light it up!
Okay. Now I am thinking about backing out.
Too late!
I know I was supposed to let you make your own decisions, but that doesn't mean I can't swoop in and save you from time to time.
If I'd known you were gonna bail, I would've done the trick myself!
Great! So you won't mind how that rope's about to coil around your hoof.
RIVALS FOR LIIIIIFE!
Wouldn't have it any other way!
I'm sorry for joining the Washouts. Lightning Dust wasn't who I thought she was. She didn't care about me being scared or putting me in danger. She only wanted a good show, even if it meant I got hurt. That's not the kind of pony I wanna look up to.
I'm the one who should be apologizing for not acting like somepony who deserves a fan club. I've been lucky enough to have somepony who thinks I'm the coolest. But there's nothing cool about making you feel like you'll never be as awesome as me. I think we should cancel the Washouts Fan Club. Because I know a fan club that could use some new members.
The Rainbow Dash Fan Club!
[clears throat] Welcome to the first ever meeting of the newest fan club for the awesomest, previously under-appreciated pony in Ponyville! With founding member and president Rainbow Dash presiding, it's the... Scootaloo Fan Club!
You know, Rainbow Dash was right. Eavesdropping on your own fan club isn't weird at all.
[grunting and laughing] You're going to have to work faster than that if you plan to dig up my whole village, lass. Let me help.
Er... Thank you, Rockhoof, but we're trying to carefully preserve every bit of history here.
Aye. This place is full of memories. Did I tell you about the time our chieftain knocked down five boulders with the kick of a wee ball?
[gasps] Stop that!
But... [stutters] That's what this is for.
Maybe in the past. [blows] Now it belongs in a museum. Safe. Preserved. Untouched.
Agh! Next you'll be sayin' I shouldn't have used the old sweat lodge.
So, you see why Rockhoof isn't an ideal fit for my team. Perhaps you could use his, uh... unusual talents?
Of course, Professor Fossil! We'd be honored to have a Pillar of Equestria on our staff!
Oh, thank Celestia.
[slurps, crunch] Ugh! [spits, groans] That apple's made of wood! What a horrible trick to play!
Hmm. Has anypony seen my decorative centerpieces? They were right here.
Good luck!
So, join me in welcoming Professor Rockhoof to our faculty!
Thank you! Thank you, all! I know I'm new to your world, but there's one thing I learned when I saved my village from a rushing river of hot lava. There's nothing you can't do with hard work. And a shovel!
Except maybe stand on stage.
So, um... everycreature dismissed. We'll... see you in class!
You think that new pony is gonna be the weirdest teacher at school or just one of the weirdest?
Yona like new teacher. He big like yak!
And he smashes things like a yak, smells like a yak...
Yes! He perfect!
Guys, he's one of the Pillars! He's like... pony history!
Hello, class!
Eh, um... [clears throat] I'm, uh, your new "Theory and Defense of Friendship" teacher.
But, uh, I haven't had a chance to look at Headmare Twilight's notes yet. What have you all been learnin'?
 We just studied all about how Princess Celestia and Luna used a spell to trap Discord in stone sleep for hundreds of moons.
Ohhhh-ho-ho-ho-ho-ho! So it's a class about stories, is it?
Stories! Yeah! And we never, ever, ever get homework!
Good! The best way to teach colts and fillies is by experience. Like the time I was in the woods and I ran across an ursa major!
Really?!
We're not doing that, right?
You fight ursa major? All alone?
Aye. And I defeated her, too.
Now this I'm interested in!
How Professor Rockhoof win?
Well... that's quite a tale.
From what Professor Fossil said, it sounds like Rockhoof just hasn't settled into modern times yet. Our school is the perfect place for that. Plus, we get a new teacher.
[chuckles] This may be the fastest friendship problem you ever solved.
Dodge! Thrust! Shovel leap! Shovel throw!
Shovel whack! Now you lot be the ursa major. Lots o' growlin', mind?
Maybe classrooms were less breakable in the old days?
Ooh-ooh-ooh! What happened next?
[laughing] The huge beastie jumped out of the moonlit mist, her fearsome fangs at my throat! But I rolled clear.
Then what?
She backed me up against a wall, ready to pounce!
I looked at her. She looked at me. And I say—!
Uh, Professor Rockhoof?
Nope! Guess again! [clears throat] Uh, oops.
Sorry to interrupt. Class, why don't we go ahead and take lunch early today? Rockhoof, can we take a walk outside?
Our school is about finding your own special way to teach.
But maybe you could do a little less smashing in the classroom?
I know it's a big change. But I think you're gonna fit in just—
Fire!
Rockhoof, wait!
No time! The building's ablaze! We have to get everypony out!
Professor Rockhoof best teacher ever! [sighs] Day cannot get better.
Let's get you outside, wee ones!
Day just got better!
Alley-oop!
Rockhoof?
What are you doing?!
Savin' the school!
Just like fightin' a volcano in the good old days!
Would somepony kindly explain what is the meaning of all this water?!
I'm not sure. But I think it's surf's up! Woo-hoo! Cowabunga!
Sorry, Rarity, but I had to put out the ragin' inferno.
Inferno? Where?
Did you not see the smoke and flame?
Yeah, that was us. You know, dragons? Having a fire-breathing competition?
You, uh... what?
[panting] They do it all the time. That's what we were trying to tell you.
We know you're used to bein' a hero, Rockhoof. Only what we need here is a teacher.
One who doesn't ruin an entire class's friendship quilts. Do you know how hard it is to stitch a pineapple pattern?!
[sighs] My deepest apologies. I'm not used to living with dragons or much else in this modern time. Professor Fossil made it clear I'm not welcome back in my old village. Seems I don't belong here either.
Wheeeee!
So apparently, finding Rockhoof a new job is a lot harder than we thought. Has anypony had any luck?
I-I thought you were gonna try him out at the post office.
We did.
[yelling] Do you know where I can find Cranky Doodle Donkey?! I need to deliver his medicine! He has a rash in a very embarrassing place!
[shudders] I did not need to hear that.
Yup. Rockhoof's time as a spa masseuse didn't work out either.
Now just let me know if this is too much pressure!
W-Well, at least Rockhoof's really strong. Maybe we could find him a job carrying heavy stuff?
I tried that already. Zecora needed somepony to help her get supplies, but...
I know you said you only needed a few leaves, but I figured why not bring you the whole thing?
Oh, how horrid.
None of the other Pillars seem to be having trouble fitting into the modern world.
Then maybe they can show Rockhoof how they did it. Get him used to livin' in this time.
Great idea! Rockhoof's old friends would be happy to help. And I bet he'd love to visit them.
[sighs] Even Canterlot looks different from the old days.
Aww. I'm sure once you see your old pal Flash Magnus, you'll feel right at home.
Trot, two, three, four! Trot, two, three, four! Keep it lively, rookies! Visitors on site! Company, halt! Rockhoof, you old ditch-digger you!
Flash Magnus, as I live and breathe! Is this your squadron?
After we got out of limbo, I went looking for work for a pony with experience in the Royal Legion. Once a soldier, always a soldier.
Princess Celestia was happy to find a new drill sergeant for her guard!
Uh... that's great. She really put you in a job that big so soon?
Ho-ho, this is nothing. You should see what Mistmane is up to.
They made you the royal landscape artist for the Crystal Empire?
Wow...
Your work is beautiful.
Oh, thank you. I've never worked with crystal before, but in my heart, I know I'm where I belong.
You always could find the beauty in things. But there's not much demand for shovel ponies like me nowadays.
Don't give up hope. See Somnambula. She'll help you find your purpose.
[whispering] Somnambula's a motivational speaker. Bet they didn't even have those back in your time.
[whispering] Because we didn't need them. Ponies knew what to do with their lives.
Focus on my voice and feel yourself unlock your potential. [inhaling and exhaling] Imagine everything that troubles you as one big cloud. Now let it float away. You are relaxed. Free to do anything you wish.
Guess he wished he could take a nap?
Mage Meadowbrook, your home looks just the same as the old days. Wish I could say the same for mine.
Well, I've had to expand my clinic a bit. Many creatures need healin' in this modern world. Aww. Looks like you could use some, too. What's got you heartsick, Rockhoof?
Thing is, I can't do my old job like Flash. Or adapt like Mistmane. Or succeed at something new like Somnambula. Or go home, like you.
Give it time. Even Star Swirl's still learnin' about friendship.
Yeah! And I bet Stygian took plenty o' time to fit in.
Hey, look what I found! Me and My Shadow, the third hit novel by former villain Stygian! I'm impressed! He's really thriving!
Rockhoof? Where are you going?
I'm not sure. Maybe I just don't belong in this modern world.
Now this here's a right mash of apples. 'Stead of solvin' Rockhoof's problem, we made him feel even worse.
I'll tell you the real problem here. We haven't given Rockhoof the chance to be who he really is.
A pony with a metal shovel and a heart of gold?
Ugh. A hero! What we need to do is find him a job that's as epic as he is!
Hmm. I might know just the thing.
I'm honored to serve in the Hippogriff Navy, General Seaspray! I promise I'll prove my worth.
Think nothing of it. I know how hard it is to adapt to a new home. After our many years below the waves, land customs seemed strange.
Like you didn't fit in, no matter how hard you tried?
As though the world had moved on without us. Never fear, Rockhoof. We shall be as brothers in this bright future above the waves.
[whispering, to Twilight Sparkle] Uh, why do the Hippogriffs need ships if they can turn into seaponies?
Maybe they just like cruises?
General! The fog's too thick to see our way out of the harbor!
Heave to, swabbies! Halt the ship and hold her 'til the fog passes!
Wait, General! We can navigate the same way my Coltic ancestors traveled through the Selkie Mists! We'll look to the stars! There in the northwest sky is the constellation O'Bridle's Pelt! Steer the ship toward that!
You heard the pony, crew! Make full sail!
Yee-haw! Rockhoof did it!
But... I don't understand! The stars have always steered me true!
Oh, no. Stars can move slowly over time. They must look different now than over a thousand years ago.
It was an honor serving with you, Rockhoof. But it seems our paths lie in different directions.
Hey, mistakes happen. We'll think of something else for you to do.
Oh, there's no need, lass. I already know what I want to do next.
Really? What?
I heard there's a statue spell that sends creatures into stone sleep. I want you to cast it. On me.
No!
Yes!
No!
Aye!
No!
Aye!
Hey, guys. Need me to help you decide something?
Rockhoof wants me to cast a spell to turn him into a statue! The answer is no!
Whoa. I thought you were arguing over ice cream flavors.
The answer is still no! Why would you want to be turned into stone?
Because I'm a relic of a bygone age. I belong in a museum. Safe. Preserved. Untouched. I don't belong in this time. It's up to you to make that right.
But there has to be a better way!
Twilight, please understand. I want to be remembered as the hero I was, not the disappointment I've become.
But you're not! Rockhoof, wait! Spike, can you teach my class today?
Uh, you're not really going to turn him to stone, are you?
Only because it's temporary. As soon as I think of a new solution, we'll wake Rockhoof up. I know he has more to offer the world as a pony than a statue.
Did you hear Rockhoof caught all the bees in the Everfree Forest and gave 'em to Zecora as a gift?
Wow! Terramar said Rockhoof called down the stars and sunk the whole Hippogriff Navy!
He's definitely weird, but in a fun way. You never know what's gonna happen next with him.
Professor Rockhoof best pony!
Hey, class. Welcome to the Theory and Defense of Friendship.
Another sub? Let me start by telling you we don't get homework and we only do field trips.
Yeeeeah. Nice try. Twilight sent me to tell you she won't be in today 'cause she has to cast a stone sleep spell on Rockhoof.
Like Discord?! But why?! Rockhoof isn't a bad guy!
["I don't know" sound] Your instructions are to write an essay on heroism and what it means to you.
No!
Oh, don't worry. It doesn't have to be a long essay.
Maybe like this? Or on three legs? Hmm. What will give the wee birds fewer places to, uh... decorate?
Professor Rockhoof! Dragon said you want to turn into stone! Yona not believe it!
Aye, I'm afraid it's true, lass.
But... pony need finish ursa major story for class!
Oh, it's sweet of you to try to get me to stay, Yona. But I'm afraid old stories like mine aren't worth anything in this day and age.
Fine! If pony no want tell Yona story, then Yona tell pony story! From class report! [reading] "When Yona come to pony school, Yona not fit in. Pony ways strange. But Yona find friends! Yona meet Professor Rockhoof! Pony brave and strong as yak! Not afraid! Hero! When Yona grow up, Yona want to be just like Professor Rockhoof!"
Well, uh, since you went to the trouble of writing something that nice, I suppose the least I could do is tell you the rest of the story.
Yona tell whole school Rockhoof is best! Now all want to hear story!
Okay, I have the spell. But will you please reconsider? Rockhoof?
The ursa major tried to grab me by the gullet! But I ducked her claws!
She had me cornered. So I look at her. She looks at me.
And I say, "Sorry you won't be having any dinner tonight, lass! Guess you'll just have to... grin and bear it!"
And then I tossed her away with my shovel high into the sky! And she's been a constellation up there ever since! Or so I'm told. And that's the end of my story.
One more story! One more story!
No, no. Thank you for listening. But it's time to say goodbye.
Wait. You said there wasn't anything in this time you were good at. What about telling stories?
It was just a tall tale.
One that captured the hearts and imagination of everycreature here.
Plus, pony story super fun!
As the Princess of Friendship, I'd like to appoint you as Equestria's official keeper of tales!
Can you do that?
Eh.
I, uh... That's very kind of you. But I still think these old bones are more suited to a museum display.
You are a living record of our history. Your stories can inspire and teach generations to come. If you're a statue, that's all lost.
But will I ever really belong in your world?
Rockhoof Yona's friend. So Rockhoof belongs!
You know... That reminds me of another story. Once, there was a small yak that knew more than a great hero.
Hey, don't forget the dragons in this one!
Aye, there were dragons. And ponies. And plenty of Hippogriffs. Plus a changeling and a griffon...
The Tree of Harmony remains one of the most powerful sources of magic known to ponydom. And though it has been at the "root" of magic and friendship from the moment it was planted, its ways are mysterious. Almost as if it has a mind of its own.
Mind? [scoffs] It's a tree.
A tree that grew a castle.
Was that before or after Discord made chocolate rain?
[whispers] After.
I'm never gonna learn pony history!
You can all show me what you've learned on tomorrow's test – "Friendship's Effect on the Course of Equestrian History".
Remember! Study groups are both fun and effective!
So, who wants to study together?
With other students? This is Equestria! If you want the real scoop, there's only one place to go. Hello, oh maaaaagical Equestrian tree! Can you tell me everything I need to know about friendship?
The Elements of Harmony grew the Tree?
No! The Pillars grew the Tree.
The Tree grew the Elements, and then the box with six locks.
But our professors found six keys and unlocked the box.
I'm so gonna fail.
You guys! Check this out!
That's a plumbing diagram on how to fix a sink.
What does that have to do with Equestrian history?
Nothing. I just can't believe that's how sinks work! Where's Yona?
[laughs] Apparently, [imitating Yona] yaks no love study groups!
[snoring] Spider! No!
Hey, Cozy. What are you doing here?
I volunteered to help Professor Sparkle organize these books. So, experts on Equestrian history yet?
I think I'd be better off studying the plumbing book. This stuff is impossible.
Oh, come on, Gallus! With good friends and solid study habits, anything is possible!
How about you just tell us what's on tomorrow's test, professor?
Now, hold on a sec. I can't give y'all a sneak peek. That there wouldn't be honest.
[clears throat] Golly, it's so inspiring how relaxed you all are about studying friendship, considering your disadvantage.
What cute pony mean?
Just consider where you all came from. If Sandbar hadn't sacrificed so much of his time to get you up to speed, who knows how behind you'd be?
That's... not what—
[to Ocellus] I mean, growing up as a love-starved changeling? [to Silverstream] Or hiding underwater from an evil king all those years? Trusting anycreature must be so hard for you. [to Gallus] And griffons never want to be around anycreature, even other griffons. [to Smolder] And dragons are so fierce compared to us. There must be days you can't wait to get away from all us cute ponies. [to Yona, imitating Yona] "Everypony know yaks think yaks are best!" Making friends with any other creature must seem like a step down. It's just so impressive how you keep trying to understand friendship, even though it isn't in your nature. Oh! I'll let you borrow my notes! It's what friends do. I'll be right back!
We... should... get back to studying.
Could you stop that clicking?! I'm trying to focus!
Dude!
What? We have a test. I don't know every detail about every adventure the professors went on like you do.
That's why we're studying together.
Right. To help us "disadvantaged" creatures.
Yona confused. Why we all upset?
I only glanced at that plumbing book, but I'm pretty sure this isn't supposed to be here.
What are you doing?
Dragon. Strange magical cave. What do you think I'm doing?
Did we know this was down here?
I don't think anypony knows this is down here.
[stilted] Welcome.
Headmare Twilight? Where are we?
[stilted] Where you need to be.
Uh, Yona confused.
[stilted] It is as I feared. You are not one. What has happened?
We were studying friendship's effect on history, but then...
Since friendship just isn't in our nature, what's the point?
[stilted] You do not believe friendship is in your nature? That is NOT acceptable!
Our headmare is glowing, you guys. What is going on?!
We should probably get back to studying for the test.
A test. Yes. By sunrise, this door will be closed. Finish the test before then, and you may go. Fail the test, and here you will stay.
Huh?
Huh?
Huh?
Ooh!
Mount Aris? Headmare Twilight sent me home? Wait. Am I suspended? Hello? Anygriff here? Hmm. They must be topside.
The Storm King?! He's back?!
Big room. No exits. Big deal.
Nothing for yaks to be afraid of. Just empty cave. Nothing in here can hurt—
...Yona.
Ugh. Things like this just don't happen in the Dragon Lands. Huh?
...And I told her she was the cutest pony of all ponies!
[to Smolder] Ohhh! Aren't you just the most adorable thing? Come join us.
No. On so many levels. No.
Huh?
Come sit by me, and let's compliment each other!
[gasps] Why do you look like that?
What do you mean? We all look the same.
Not me.
Of course not you... your Majesty. We'll go drain the love from those pathetic ponies in Ponyville just as you ordered.
[whimpers, gasps] Nooooo!
Oh! Thank heavens we found you!
There's an emergency! And we need you, Sandbar!
[gasps] My first friendship adventure! Yes! Count me in! Oh, I've been waiting for this— Wait! The others!
We don't need them! We need you! Come on!
Aah! Come on, Gallus. Get it together. Deep breaths. [inhaling and exhaling] Ah... Ahh... Achoo!
[panicked whimpering] Okay. If this is a test, there's got to be a way out. It's just a puzzle... that will squash you if you don't figure it out.
Oops.
[groans] Look. I have to get out of here and find my friends. So just tell me what I have to do to pass this test. I'm not afraid of anything.
Um, I dunno. Seems like she's afraid to be cute and adorable, doesn't it?
Or maybe she's just afraid to admit she likes being cute and adorable.
Mm-hmm!
Just this once. [clears throat, cute voice] May I have some tea, please?
Aw, but you can't have tea if you aren't dressed for it.
Okay. But let's keep this between us.
Huh?
Yona... no mean to scream. Yona love making friends. Spiders friends?
Wait. What little spider say?
What happened to you?
What happened to you?
You never saw any of that. Got it?
Maybe the others got out already and we're the last ones?
[sarcastic] Yeah, that totally seems like something they would do.
[groans] Any other dragon or griffon would save themselves and get out of this crazy cave.
Guess we aren't just any dragon or griffon anymore.
Guess not. You go that way. I'll check over there.
Wait. I really should find my friends.
Darling, it was so generous of you to take the time to teach those other creatures about friendship.
But if you're going to join us and do something that really makes a difference, we need to know where your loyalty lies.
You do want to impress us, don't you, Sandbar?
Huh? Ocellus?
Go away.
We're still in those weird caves beneath the school. We've gotta get out of here. [gasps] Chrysalis! Where's Ocellus?!
Hello?!
Where are—? Whoa!
Shhhh! The Storm King will hear you!
The Storm King? He was defeated. We're still under the school. This is all just some crazy test.
Okay, that's horrifying.
I can't find any Hippogriffs or seaponies. They must all be captured! Gallus! Get back down here!
It's not real.
Yes, it is! He's back, and I'm never gonna see another sunset or fly through a cloud bank or study plumbing! He's gonna take away everything I love! I'm gonna be trapped down here forever!
I'm afraid of being trapped, too! I'm scared of small spaces.
Really?
Yeah. And I was stuck in a room that kept shrinking. But I realized I had to face my fear, and I found the way out. This is your test. He isn't really here.
But what if he is?
Then tell him exactly what you think of him.
Ha-ha! I did it! I told him!
Okay. Heh. Hug time later. W-We still have to get back to the library.
You're a changeling. Just change back.
I can't.
Maybe my past was so horrible, it's still inside me just waiting to come out again.
That's ridiculous. That's not who you are anymore. You've changed.
Maybe we can't really change that much.
[muffled] I like cute, silly stuff.
I'm sorry, what?
I like cute, silly stuff! But ever since school started, I've realized that sometimes I kinda don't mind cute stuff.
If a dragon like me can admit she likes tea parties, that's proof we can change. I was gonna invite you to a top-secret tea party with me, but if you want to stay down here...
Oh! No! I want to come!
I thought that might work. Come on, let's go!
Where's Yona and Sandbar?
The way out is closing!
We aren't leaving without them!
Yona find you guys!
Hey, Yona. Who's your... spider army?
Yona always scared of spiders. But then Yona meet Spindle.
Yona realize no reason to be afraid. Spiders and yak friends! So Yona ask new friends to help finding old friends!
Do you think your new friends can help us find Sandbar?
Of all the strange things that have happened tonight, that's the strangest, right?
Okay, enough! I'm not going anywhere without my friends!
So you don't care about anypony but your friends? Are you really that selfish?
Honestly, you really are such a disappointment.
I've always looked up to you. You would never turn your back on each other, and that's what makes you strong. Now I have a group of friends that I think is every bit as amazing as yours. If I have to give up on them to make you proud, then you aren't the ponies I thought you were. I don't care if I disappoint you. You disappoint me.
Did you just tell our professors you were disappointed in them?
Something tells me those weren't actually our professors. Besides, they tried to get between me and my friends.
That's all very sweet. Now, can we please get out of here?!
[grunting] You! You're not Headmare Twilight, are you?
[gasps] You're the Tree of Harmony!
The Tree of Harmony turned into a sparkly version of our headmare to talk to us? Did I miss a chapter in class?
Like all living things, I change as I grow. As I have grown, so have my abilities.
I'm a bit rusty on pony history. But since when does the Tree of Harmony trap creatures in a cave with their biggest fears?!
You chose what you saw in my roots, not me.
[gasps] Our friendship got us past our fears!
You were more concerned with each other's well-being than your own. You were strong when your friends were weak. You let each other in and showed that you would be there for each other, no matter what. Friendship is in your nature.
W-We just learned a friendship lesson from a tree, didn't we?
You're all right! I came back with my notes and saw this and didn't know what to think!
We're better than all right! We just got tested by the Tree of Harmony! And we totally passed!
The Tree of Harmony? Here?
Yeah! Well, below here. Under the school! We found this and went down and met the Tree, and Gallus was all, [imitating Gallus] "Friendship is not in our nature." And the Tree was like, "Whaaaaat?!" And it tested us!
Long story short, friendship is in our nature. The Tree said so.
I guess we should tell somepony there's a giant magical hole in the library.
Or not.
We have to tell our professors about this! They won't believe that—!
You can't!
Why no?
Because... it's my fault. You were all getting along so well, and I felt left out. I was jealous. And it upset you so much, the Tree of Harmony had to test you. [gasps] Oh! I'm gonna get expelled for sure! [crying] Please don't tell anypony about this! Especially the professors! Please, please, please—!
Okay! [yawns] I'm actually too tired to do anything right now.
Yeah, but we can't go to sleep. We'll miss the test.
[yawns] The test! I almost forgot!
[yawns] We're all gonna fail.
What if I tell Professor Sparkle I needed help organizing these books, and you were all kind enough to pitch in? I'll get you an extension!
[yawns] Thanks, Cozy. That's nice of you.
I'm just so sorry I caused all of this. You're such good friends. I'm sorry I ever doubted you.
You get some rest. Don't give any of this another thought. Just let Cozy take care of everything.
I can't believe you two are going on a friendship quest! This is amazing!
What do you mean, Twilight? We've been on one together before.
Exactly! This is the first time the map has teamed up the same ponies for a second quest!
That is special.
Heh. Must be 'cause we're extra good at solvin' friendship problems.
I hope so, 'cause it looks like this one might be a little tricky. You're going to the Peaks of Peril.
The Peaks of... P-P-Peril?!
Aw, it's just a name. It doesn't mean anythin'.
Like how Cloudsdale is in the clouds and the Crystal Empire's made of crystal?
Fair point. So, what can ya tell us about the place, Twilight?
Only what Rockhoof told me. Back in his day, nopony knew much about the Peaks of Peril except for the legend on this ancient shield. It says a group called the Kirin used to live there, known for their kindness and truth-speaking.
Now we know why the Map called us.
Unfortunately, other creatures also lived there. The Nirik, fearsome beasts of pure fire.
Sorry, Fluttershy. Flanks don't lie.
Aw, I'm sure the two of us'll get that friendship problem solved, no matter what kind o' creature has it.
Guess nopony else is goin' out as far as we are.
Maybe they know something we don't?
Now, Fluttershy, I've told you a dozen times. There's nothin' to be sca—
I'm sorry.
[screams] You really startled us.
Oh, it's just that I'm not used to seeing anypony taking the train to... [ominously] the end of the line. The final destination. The last stop!
We get the picture. Why?
Well, maybe there's a little somethin' to be scared of.
Yah!
There. That should be enough flowers to keep your tree cozy.
Fluttershy! What are you doin'?! This is no time for visitin' varmints! We're on a friendship quest, remember?!
Yes, but actua—
Come on! We're burnin' daylight!
I know, but what I found out is that—
Now, we gotta get up that peak! I figure if we use some rope and elbow grease, we can make it up half—
Applejack! Can you please listen to me?! [clears throat] What I'm trying to say is the squirrels told me a shortcut they take to the Kirin village.
Oh. [chuckles] Sorry, Fluttershy. I suppose I got a little too caught up in the adventure.
That's all right. If you hadn't come back to get me, I probably would've talked to the squirrels all day. Heh.
Show yourself!
Well, hi. I'm Applejack, and this here's Fluttershy.
If you have any friendship problems, we're here to help.
Huh. [to Fluttershy] Quiet bunch, ain't they? [clears throat] We're from Equestria, and we're plumb tickled to meet y'all.
S-So, uh... what are your names?
[stressing] Ap-ple-jack! Flut-ter-shy! Remember?
[whispering, to Applejack] Maybe they don't understand us.
[stressing] Do. You. Un-der-stand. Ponish?
Oh! But you don't speak?
Don't or won't?
Will you excuse us for a moment? [to Applejack] You have to ask yes-or-no questions, or they won't answer.
Like talkin' to Angel Bunny?
Not exactly. I can always tell what Angel is feeling. But these Kirin don't show anything.
Well, how are we gonna solve a friendship problem if none of 'em will tell us what it is?
These Kirin are quieter than an apple blossom on snowfall. Still, there's gotta be some way to make 'em speak. [chuckles] Beautiful day, ain't it?
[whinny] Knock, knock! Now you say, "Who's there?"
Police. "Police who?" Police [please] say somethin'!
Uh-oh! I feel a sneeze comin' on! Aaaa-CHOOOOO!
Gesundheit.
[groans] Don't any o' y'all talk?!
Now we're gettin' somewhere.
A dark spooky path that leads into unknown territory?
Tell you what, sugarcube. You stay and see if you can get anythin' outta these here Kirin. I'll go and try to find one that talks.
Phew! Be careful. And watch out for Niriks!
[yelps] Phew! [yelps] Oh. Have you seen a Kirin that talks?
Any idea where I should look?
Oh, for the love of Celestia! Can't ya just say somethin'?!
[giggles] Gotcha! Sorry, sorry, but that was too good. Oh, you don't know how much I missed jokes. Hi-larity! Am I pronouncing that right? Some words I haven't said in a will. While! While. Hi, I'm Autumn Blaze. You've just arrived, and perhaps you're tired or hungry or reflective and want to sleep and eat and journal? Which you should do, of course! But first— Oh! Oh, what joy to talk with another creature! It's been so long! You must tell me everything about you! There's so much to say, so much to do! Oh, look at me. I'm going on, and you haven't seen— I mean, have you seen—? W-What am I saying? Of course you haven't. So just— I— yeah— I will j— Follow me!
That... was somethin', all right.
Oh, wow. [gasps] This... is amazin'.
Oh, you think so, too?! The way the light shimmers off everything, like, like it all suddenly woke up the moment you saw it. And you realize maybe the water and the mountains and the forest and the... yes, the rainbow and the stars and the sky are all looking back at you thinking the same thing? That we are a part of the everything. That maybe there's just one thing and we are all it.
I was gonna say it's pretty. But yeah.
[hums, sniffs] Mmmm! And this is just the first stop on a journey of amazing things to see, smell, tiptoe through. Oh, I haven't been able to share all of this with anypony in forever! Since they all took that vow of silence. So it's a lot for me to pro-cess. Process? Uh, deal with.
Whoa there. Vow of silence?
That's, uh... That's why they asked me to leave.
I hope it's not a sore subject, but... you mind explainin' why y'all went quiet in the first place?
It's a long story.
[sighs] You'd rather not talk about it?
No.
I-I under—
[begins singing] I'd rather... siiiiiiiiiiiing!
La, la-la-la, la-la La-la-la, la-la-la
The Kirin used to speak and sing We weren't always quiet We told stories and funny jokes My stand-up was a riot
But then one day, a fight broke out And hurtful words were said Flaring tempers were inflamed Destruction quickly spread
And flaming bred from head to head It even burnt our... bread
Sorry, I forgot how much I love rhyming. Where was I? Oh, right!
we quickly learned That words could be a curse
"No more talking," yelled our leader The last thing said aloud Into the Stream of Silence We stepped as a crowd
The water cooled emotions And peace was soon restored But with no way to speak my thoughts I got super... bored
Seriously, there's only so long that Sudoku can keep you entertained!
'Cause rainbows won't light up the sky Unless you let it rain And shiny apples sometimes come with worms No, you can't give up your laughter 'Cause you're scared of a little pain It's a lesson that the Kirin never learned
I was stuck in silent prison With the voices in my head 'Til I tripped over my salvation In a helpful flowerbed
I found a cure to clear my pipes And I became quite chatty With years and years of stored-up words I drove my village batty
They didn't like my jokes and songs And daily dose of news The plays I wrote, the speeches spoke Variety revues
Or the story about the Kirin who hid below an opera stage
And fell in love with this opera singer, and he wore a freaky half-mask thing, and he played the organ a lot and got all broody 'cause the singer was in love with another dude, so he took her away on this underground gondola. I mean, who doesn't love musical theater?!
The village leader made it clear I had to make my choice I could stay and live with them Or I could keep my voice
So I came here, but left the couch alone They're hard to move With just the view for company Until ya heard me groove
Take it away, boys!
'Cause rainbows won't light up the sky Unless you let it rain And candles just won't glow until they're burned No, you can't give up your laughter 'Cause you're scared of a little pain It's a lesson that my village never learned
No matter how hard I schooled them Fear of hurt is still what ruled them Sometimes you gotta let it raaaaaaaain!
Yeah, sometimes you've gotta let it rain
[gasps] I can't believe it! Nopony should give up feelin'... their feelin's just to keep from gettin' angry!
That's what I said! You know, after I started talking again.
[gasps] I bet this here's the problem that Fluttershy and I came to help y'all with!
Really? Who's Fluttershy? Oh! Did you name your shadow? Mine's called "Silhouette Gloom of the Sundown Lands".
Right... Well, I'm thinkin' if we just go talk to the other Kirin, we can get 'em to welcome you back proper-like. Maybe even convince 'em to take your cure.
Oh, yes! Yes, of course! Oh, just one small thing. The antidote from my anecdote? It's gone.
There's no cure left?!
I used the last of the foal's-breath flowers to make it. And I-I haven't seen them bloom since.
[sighs] Well, this wouldn't be a friendship quest if it was easy. I'm gonna start by gettin' your friends to welcome you back!
You know, between you and me, I'm not sure she's gonna convince them. [deep voice] Nope! [normal voice] But... [whispering] I hope she does.
[panting] Fluttershy! Guess what!
Bet that's a problem the Kirin never have.
[giggles] No.
Anyhow, we gotta get 'em all talkin' again.
Oh, no-no-no-no-no! We can't ever let that happen!
I thought you said you figured out the friendship problem. Was somethin' lost in translation?
The Kirin are usually peaceful and kind. But when they get mad, they turn into Niriks, creatures made of fire and vengeance!
Heh. That seemed less scary when it was in a song.
The last time they all argued, they got so angry, they accidentally destroyed their whole village. So the Kirin decided to make sure it would never happen again.
But that's no reason to stop talkin'.
Yes, it is! Fire is dangerous, especially in a forest like this. Why, think of all the animals it could hurt.
Not if they don't turn into fire-breathin' Nirik in the first place.
And how can you be sure that won't happen?
There's gotta be a better way than givin' up all your feelin's!
Applejack! You're not listening!
'Cause you're not talkin' any sense!
Um, what are they doing?
[grunts] Maybe they got worried because we were arguing with each other.
Aw, shucks! We were just havin' a normal, civil disagreement! Honest!
To the Stream of Silence! If we hit that water, we'll never be able to talk or feel anythin' ever again!
[distorted] Put them down!
It's all right. I think I know this one. And she's tryin' to help.
Well, yeah! Can't have them silence the only friend who'll speak to me.
She talks?
You have no idea. Fluttershy, meet Autumn Blaze.
Well, thank you for that... um, wall of fire. But I thought Niriks were dangerous when they're angry. How did you know you could control your temper?
I didn't. Huh. I guess anger's like other feelings. It's not about having them. It's what you do with them.
And givin' up happiness to keep away anger is no kind o' life.
I never thought of it that way. I can't imagine not being able to talk to my animal friends.
Fern Flare, you used to love to laugh at everything. And Rain Shine, you sung the most beautiful harmonies. Don't you miss it?
I know you're worried about fightin'. But friends can disagree without causin' a ruckus.
Everypony gets mad sometimes. Even Applejack and I argue.
What?! When do we ever argue?
[clears throat] On the way here? And about the Kirin being silent? And right now!
We don't always see eye-to-eye. But we never let that get in the way of our friendship.
And if you're really angry, then take some time away to be a Nirik where it won't hurt anypony.
I-I think they're tryin' to say somethin'.
Okay, are you hungry? Oh, no. Is some Kirin trapped in a well? Okay, "baby". "Baby fish". "Ba"— "Ba"— No. "Baby fish mouth"? Uh, something? Anything?! [groans] Just write it down! [groans] This is making me furious. Would you excuse me? I'll be right back. [distorted scream] You were saying?
Ohhhh! You want the cure for the Stream of Silence!
That's wonderful! Uh, isn't it?
Well, it would be. Except there aren't any flowers left to make the cure.
Are you sure?
Oh, beyond sure. Believe me, I've had a lot of alone time lately. I searched the entire forest seventy-three and a half times. Although I wonder if that second half could make a difference.
Hmm. I wish she'd told us what kind of flowers she's looking for.
They're called foal's-breath.
I've never heard of that.
Uh, Fluttershy? A little help?
[gasps] He says he knows where to find more foal's-breath!
Well, what are we waitin' for? Lead the way!
[gasps] That's what foal's-breath looks like?!
Autumn Blaze never would've made it past the Peaks to search here. I owe you an apology.
Why?
'Cause if your kindness hadn't made you stop to help the squirrels, we never would've found this here flower.
And if your honesty hadn't convinced the Kirin to talk, we wouldn't need to find it.
[chuckles] Guess it's a good thing the map sent both of us, huh?
[gasps] You found them?! Where were they?! Tell me everything, and feel free to add complicated descriptions and comedic tangents!
Oh. Right. First things first.
Autumn Blaze, you have given us a gift. The realization that anger is within us, but it is our choice how we let it out. We would very much like it if you came back to live with us. I can't say how much we've missed your beautiful voice.
'Cause rainbows won't light up the sky  Unless you let it rain  And candles just won't glow until they're burned  No, you can't give up your laughter  'Cause you're scared of a little pain  It's a lesson that my village never learned
Oh, yes, 'cause rainbows won't light up the sky  Unless you let it...
Raaaaaaaain!
Woo-hoo-hoo!
Whoa! Ta-da!
Okay, Spike. Now let's try a flip. Remember – two flaps, then straight up!
Got it!
You're doing great, Spike. Now let's see the big finish!
Whoa-oa-oa-oa!
[grunts] I don't know about "big", but I am definitely finished.
Maybe I should get Rainbow Dash. She's the one who taught me advanced flying techniques.
No, thanks. If I'm gonna mess up, I'd rather do it in front of you. I just don't understand why none of your advice is helping.
Because she's teaching you to fly like a pony instead of a dragon.
What's the difference?
Well, we don't have feathers, for starters.
Ye-he-he-hes!
Wow! Thank you so much! How did you know I just needed to bend my wings?
Honestly, this is Dragon 101. Usually dragon parents teach this stuff.
Spike, I've been thinking about our flying lesson.
Uh-huh...
I can't believe I overlooked something as simple as feathers. It's no wonder you were having trouble. I wish I had more "dragonish" knowledge to give you. Do you think being raised by ponies has affected you in other ways? Spike?
Did you say something, Twilight? Sorry. I'm just finishing up this "thank-you" throw pillow for Smolder. And you know how I get when I'm in the embroidery zone.
It's a pillow! But not for your head. Although it could be. It's a throw pillow. They're more casual. You can use 'em anywhere. You don't like it.
Uh, it's not that. It's just dragons don't really use pillows. At all.
What?
Hey, what's that?
I don't know. But it's... heading right for us!
Okay. Now I really owe you for the lesson.
You all right?
Yeah. What happened?
To what?
Ow...
Maybe not. But you're hurt and need help. So I'm taking you to Twilight's castle whether you like it or not?
I'm glad Spike brought you here, Sludge. I understand you made quite the impression in town.
Literally! There's a hole and everything!
It doesn't look like you're in much shape to do anything.
Darling, do be careful.
I'm... [groans] ...fine.
I can't watch!
You're not the first stubborn dragon we've met, you know?
And sometimes, even dragons need help.
I promise. My friends and I will only do enough to get you back on your claws.
I know you had your reservations, but it's good to see you feeling better.
T-Thanks, I guess.
That's what friends are for, darling.
You're pretty lucky to have friends like these, kid.
Actually, I was orphaned as an egg, and Twilight raised me. So these ponies are more than my friends. They're my family.
We try our best, but sometimes I worry that maybe Spike is...
Missing something deep down and dragonish.
Really? Wow. I-I can't tell you how glad I am to hear that.
Why in Equestria would you be glad to hear that?
I wasn't gonna say anything since your life seemed so perfect, but I have a confession to make. Coming to Ponyville wasn't an accident. I was looking for you. Spike... [sighs] I'm your father.
[continues gasping] Sorry.
So you crashed in Ponyville on purpose?
Well, the crash part wasn't on purpose, but heading here was. I've been searching everywhere for you, kid.
Did you ask in the Crystal Empire? I'm kind of well-known there.
Actually, Spike's well-known everywhere. Not a lot of dragons were hatched by the Princess of Friendship.
Mm-hmm.
[choked up] You make it sound so simple. I wish you'd been there to help me search.
I can't believe it. I have so many questions.
Well, ask away. Answering questions is what dads are for.
I guess my biggest question is simple. Why was I an orphaned egg?
[stammers] You sure you don't want to ask something else? [choked up] It's a lot of painful memories. [sighs] Your mother was the best dragon I'd ever met.
[voiceover] The Dragon Lord even picked her to scout for the Great Migration, and-and even though she just laid your egg, we knew she'd have to go. But finding the Migration route could take a lifetime, and you deserved a chance to know your mother. So I went looking for you, carrying your egg to places no dragon or pony has ever been. Past Mount Aris, the abandoned home of the Hippogriffs...
Ooh! Did you visit Klugetown?
You've been to Klugetown?
Also, the Hippogriffs returned to Mount Aris after we helped them defeat the Storm King.
Oh, well, have you heard of the Land of the... Scale Collectors?
Uh-uh.
[to Spike] Because that's where your mother's trail finally led.
[voiceover] To a prison world of dragon hunters, where I was forced to choose between surrendering myself or surrendering your egg.
[voiceover, choked up] Of course, there was no way I was gonna sacrifice my boy. So they took me instead, and that's where I'd been ever since.
Locked up somewhere not even the Princess of Friendship has heard of.
Whoa... How did you know I was a boy?
Whatever happened to Spike's mom?
And how did the egg make it all the way back to Equestria by itself?
Hmm?
Well, that's all in the past. The only thing that matters now is that we're together. And I'm gonna make up for lost time.
I hope you don't mind, but I have a list of all the things I always wanted to do with my dad?
Mind? Spike, my boy, with you by my side, I feel like we could do anything. What do you want to do first?
Well, I've kind of been working on a list for a long time.
Dude, you want to do all of this?
Oh. I mean, w-we don't have to.
If you think doing everything on this incredibly long list is gonna fill the hole where your dragonishness should be, then that is exactly what we're gonna do!
Woo-hoo!
Oh, yeah!
I can't believe we got so many things done. But this is all my stuff. Is there anything you always wanted to do with me?
Not really.
Uhhh, I mean, uh, I'm happy to do whatever you want. But if I had a castle like this with all this stuff, I'd probably just lay around all day doing nothing like a real dragon.
Like a real dragon?
Sure! I'm not surprised you don't know any better. Twilight basically raised you as a pony. You're barely a dragon at all.
Huh?
Hey, Spike! How are things going with Sludge?
Honestly, I thought having him around would make me feel more dragonish. But I kind of feel less.
Oh, I'm sorry. I wish I could help.
Awww, shucks. [chewing noisily] I guess I shouldn't have said anything about you being more pony than dragon. I just wish we had more in common.
Maybe you two can come up with ways to turn up Spike's, uh, dragonishness.
You think that's something we can do?
You know what, son? I think it is!
Spike, I'm gonna teach you a thing or two about being a dragon. So, listen up, my boy, because I'm only gonna say this once.
Look at this castle where you live
It's pretty sweet, right?
You can't be a dragon here
Uh, I can't?
Look at these books up on the wall
Hey, I just finished organizing those!
This treasure pile's not right, I fear
Trust me, I got you covered here. You see all this soft pony stuff you're surrounded with? This has got to be the first thing to go.
Nothin' 'bout this place says "dragon den", there's too much fluff All these fancy robes, toss in a pile Take those goblets, dishes, is that gold? Still not enough! De-ponifying might just take a while
Sure, this place is grandiose But to a dragon, it's just gross Time we make the lot all disappear Reality you need a dose To all these ponies, you're too close You just can't be a dragon here
Good job, my boy! But this is still just the beginning!
Each and every dragon has a swagger all his own Watch and I'll show you what I mean You can't move like this with so much stuff to weigh you down A dragon always keeps it lean
Lose this! This! Ooh, this is nice!
Your life is soft, your scales are coiffed These pillows, beds, and sheets are washed A delight, but it's just not right what's underneath Every dragon must be free Look at you, then look at me Since when do dragons brush their teeth?
Ha! Please!
Sure, this place is grandiose But to a dragon, it's just gross Time we make the lot all disappear
What do I do?
Just grab it all and give to me After that, then you'll be free You just can't be a dragon heeeeere!
Ha! You're right! I feel better already!
See? What did I tell you? You're very lucky that I found you. Now, go get me some more.
You got it! I'm gonna go get you all the cushy pony stuff I've got... Dad.
Great! Go get 'em... son!
Spike? I just thought I'd check to see if you and Sludge had any luck turning up your dragonishness. It's hard not to feel like somehow I let you down all these years.
Oh! I'm so sorry! I didn't mean to barge in on ya!
[grunts, sighs] Ah, don't worry about it. Mi castle es su castle.
Right. Well, I'll just get out of your way.
Oh! Spike! I'm so sorry. My morning is not going well. What is all this? Why'd you leave the castle so early?
I didn't leave. I spent the night outdoors to get in touch with my dragon side.
Outdoors?
Yeah! And Sludge asked me to bring him the best breakfast Ponyville has to offer so he can show me how a real dragon would eat it. See you later!
...And that's why I thought we could use the map to—
Hey, gang! Dad was just showing me how a real dragon would act in a throne room.
Dragons like to sprawl when they get their claws done. [blows] Now, if you'll all excuse me, it's time for my bath.
[sighs] Isn't he the best?
I'm not sure that's exactly the word I would use.
Uh, Spike? The bath isn't gonna fill itself, son.
Be right there... Dad.
I'm glad you're not spending the night outside again.
Oh, I am. I'm just looking for a good bedtime story to read to my dad first.
It's nice that you have somepony to show you dragon culture. But are you sure that's what Sludge is doing?
What do you mean?
Well, taking over your room, making a mess of things...
[scoffs] That is dragon culture.
You never acted like that.
That's because you raised me. Now I finally have a chance to see how I'm supposed to be.
I don't think you're supposed to be any different than who you are.
Maybe you just don't like that I have a real parent now.
That's not true! I'm glad Sludge is here. I-I just wish he wasn't such a—
Dragon? Of all ponies, I can't believe you would have a problem with that.
What happened to you?
Just sleeping outside like we're meant to. It's not like dragons are supposed to live in castles.
I... guess not. But I live in the school. Nothing says we have to live outside.
[sighs] I'm so confused. It's been great having Sludge show me how to be a real dragon, but Twilight just doesn't get it.
What do you mean?
She can't handle how good at being a dragon Sludge is. Maybe someday, I'll be able to lay around doing nothing as well as he does.
What?
Well, not now, of course. I'm too busy bringing him pony stuff so he can show me what a dragon would do with it.
So, Sludge just lays around while you wait on him claw and tail? Uh, dragons are rude and rebellious, but they aren't lazy lumps who take advantage of their kids.
Huh. Now I'm really confused.
Me, too. Why don't you tell me everything Sludge said about being a dragon?
[chewing noisily] Hey! What's going on, son?
Twilight doesn't like having real dragons in the castle, so I told her we're moving out.
[coughs] You what?!
Spike! I found the perfect cave where you two can live! There aren't even any comfortable rocks inside!
That does sound perfect!
No, it doesn't! I-I-I mean, uh, I'm not sure I fully demonstrated all the ways a dragon would live here.
But we're not gonna live here anymore, so it doesn't matter.
It matters to me! [stammers] I want to make sure you have all the knowledge you need.
But I do. Dad, you've already shared so much. [singing] This bed is much too soft Just take that silk robe off We can't be dragons living here
Stop! I'm not your father!
What?
I just said that to get in on this sweet castle life.
So... you... pretended to be my dad?
Now-now-now-now-now, don't look at me like that, kid. I did what any dragon would do.
No. You didn't.
Hey. I saw an opportunity, and I took it. That's what dragons do.
No. It isn't.
You know what? I don't need this. I'm out of here! Enjoy lovin' pony town!
I'm taking this pillow.
I can't believe I thought somepony like that could show me how to be anything.
Uh... it must be hard growing up not really knowing who you are.
That's the thing. I know exactly who I am. And how I got that way.
Um, Twilight?
Oh. Hi. Where's your father?
He's gone. Turns out he wasn't what a real dragon should be after all. He also wasn't my real dad.
Oh, Spike. I'm so sorry.
I'm the one who's sorry. You were just worried about me, and I lost my temper. Sludge was just a great big phony.
I have to say, I'm not surprised. There's no way a dragon like that was related to you. But if you still want to search for your real family, I'd understand if you spent more time in the Dragon Lands.
I don't think so. I already know who my real family is.
Aww! It's me, right?
Mm-hmm! Besides, there's no way I'm living without pillows.
Thank you for the mail delivery. Have a wonderful day!
You're new here, right? I'm Cozy Glow, Professor Sparkle's friendship assistant. Welcome to our school! Your first class is just down that hall.
A seven-letter word for "teamwork". Have you tried "synergy"?
That's it! Thanks, Cozy!
What are friends for?
Good morning, Professor Sparkle!
Don't worry. I asked Professor Rainbow Dash to cover for you.
And she said yes?
Uh-huh. I told her how busy you are and how much her loyalty meant to you. I also color-coded your teaching schedule by friendship element and catalogued all the magical artifacts in the school. I hope that's okay.
Okay? Cozy, that's amazing! You're like my right-hoof pony! I don't know what I'd do without you.
[giggles] It's like you taught me. Helping is what friendship's all about.
Exactly. And hopefully my class is learning that on their field trip right now.
I heard they might do some sightseeing first.
Ta-da! The Pegasus Weather Factory! Every drop of rain or flake of snow from Cloudsdale comes from there.
I know, right? Hey! The cool stuff's over here!
Wow! I've never stood on a cloud before!
You can't normally. But for our trip, I cast a spell that lets us walk like Pegasi.
Hey, Yona! Come check out this view! Unless you're too scared.
[teeth chattering] Yona not scared! [screams] Now Yona scared!
Come on! We gotta catch 'em!
Gotcha!
It's okay, Yona! You like flying, remember?
Flying, not falling!
I don't understand. It-It's like my spell stopped working. That's... never happened before.
We have an emergency!
The students dropped out of the sky!
Slow down. What happened?
I cast a spell for our field trip to Cloudsdale, but my magic just failed.
We barely caught everypony in time!
I'm glad you're all okay, but I'm sure it's nothing to worry about, Starlight. Maybe you did your spell wrong. Let's take a look.
I didn't drop that book.
[sarcastically] Maybe you did your spell wrong?
Ow!
Rarity ran into the door.
[sobbing] My magic is go-o-o-one! I even had to use my hooves to coif my tail!
Still think there's nothing to worry about?
This doesn't make any sense. Magic can't just disappear. Something has to be causing this.
Um, didn't we learn in class about a creature that eats magic? Ter, Tee... Tir-something?
[gasps] Tirek!
Isn't he trapped in Tartarus?
Spike, what's wrong?
[gagging, belches, sighs] Thanks. I've never had a letter get stuck before. It's from Princess Celestia! We've all been called to an emergency meeting in Canterlot! Look!
Pretty sure I know what it's about.
Throughout our city, ponies have been reporting tales of their magic failing. Spells going wrong. Potions not working.
Even raising the moon has become difficult. Are there similar troubles in Ponyville?
We experienced it first-hoof.
It's the same in my kingdom. The Crystal Heart seems safe for now, but I worry if this continues.
"Special Delivery": [panting] Letter for the princess from Star Swirl the Bearded!
Ah! It is even more terrible than we feared! Magic is disappearing all across Equestria!
Star Swirl believes the power will drain from our land in three days. First, unicorn magic and spells will fail.
That's what's happening now.
On the second day, creatures will lose their magic abilities.
[gasps] Oh, no!
And finally, magical artifacts will stop working. When the sun sets on the third day, the magic in our world will be gone forever!
But why is this happening now?
That's the worst part. We have no idea.
Has anypony checked on Tirek?
You mean the big, red, scary centaur who eats magic? Why would we wa— Ohhhh. Riiiiight.
If he has found some way to escape his prison or work from within it, he could be responsible for this.
That is the best explanation so far. Somepony should investigate.
We'll go.
Oh, no-no-no-no-no-no. Not without us, you wo— Wait. Did you say "we"?
I've finally learned that it's okay to count on your friends for help. Um, you do want to come, right?
Uh, duh!
Thank you, all. We will search for ways to protect Equestria in your absence.
Be careful. Tartarus has changed since you were there. It now holds many dangerous creatures, and you won't be able to rely on your magic.
With her friends by her side, she won't have to.
Okay. I left you my lesson plan, all my student files, and my annotated syllabus notes. If anything goes wrong, get Celestia.
Got it!
Maybe I should just close the school and send my students home.
[sighs] Would you go save Equestria already?
Okay. Cozy packed us all up for a trip to bad guy central.
Don't forget the sandwiches. I marked whose is whose, just in case. [whispering, to Spike] Starlight can't stand mustard.
That's so sweet of you, Cozy. But Twilight has asked me to stay here to run the school.
Oh. I thought that after what happened last time—
Once she's survived Discord, anything else is a piece of cake.
Plus, she'll have you to help her.
Oh, golly, yes! I promise I'll be the best assistant ever! Come on. We can start working on your substitute headmare plans right now, if you like.
Wow. Uh, okay.
See? Nothing to worry about. Tell me there's nothing to worry about.
Good morning, friendship students! I know we're all sad Professor Sparkle is away. But don't worry, because she left me in charge to do things just the way she would.
Uh, I thought Starlight Glimmer was gonna be temporary headmare.
She was, but she left me this note. [reading] "I have to go. Twilight needs my help. I know the school is in good hooves with you, Cozy." [giggles] Isn't that sweet? We won't let Starlight down, will we?
It's just kind of weird, isn't it?
I don't know what you mean.
Like, why'd she change her mind? Why did Starlight write a note instead of saying goodbye to us herself? Doesn't make any sense.
[giggles] Oh, Smolder, you forget. We're not scheming dragons. We're ponies. Sounds like somecreature needs to do a little extra friendship homework.
Yak not pony either! If Smolder get homework, Yona get homework.
Me, too!
I'm in!
Yeah! [laughs] Homework party!
[groans] Fine.
What loyalty. Professor Rainbow Dash would be so proud. You are such good friends. You all are. And I'm grateful because it will be awfully hard running a whole school alone. Can I count on each of you to help me?
Thank you so much! It's just like our professors taught us. Together, we can get through anything!
Ow! Ugh! I have had it with these horrible flies! [whines] I miss my magic!
Have you tried using your tail to shoo them away?
[gasps] Bite your tongue! It's for decorative purposes only!
Hey! I didn't know we packed green cupcakes.
Um, we didn't. They must've gone bad without magic to keep them cold.
"Magic" this, "magic" that. We don't need magic to go on a little hike.
You were saying?
You just need to think more like Earth ponies, y'all. Granny's "Apple Core No-Bite-No-More"! That'll keep the flies off.
[sniffs] Ugh! It smells just like it looks!
Even if our food's spoiled, these blueberries are still good to eat.
Too bad we can't do anything about the rainstorm.
I can't stop that storm by myself, but I can still help!
I think we have all the magic we need right here. Not that I don't want to get it back. Heh. Let's go!
"Citrine Spark": Cozy Glow baked our class cupcakes today!
S08E01 Unnamed Earth Mare # And she made all of us friendship bracelets!
"Patty Peppermint": She's the nicest pony I've ever met. I'm so glad she's headmare!
Uh, temporary headmare? Right, guys?
"Citrine Spark": Oh, oh, of course. But if Twilight takes her time coming back, I won't mind.
Finally! We thought you forgot about study club.
Sorry I'm late. Cozy Glow gave our class tickets to a Sapphire Shores concert in Ponyville tonight.
You get the feeling Cozy's trying too hard to make us like her?
Or maybe she just wants to help us keep our minds off of how scary it is that magic's disappearing.
I don't trust her. What's she up to behind those big eyes and bouncy curls?
And why Cozy pony coming out of catacombs so late at night?
Let's go ask her.
This is the only door to Tartarus. The good news is the seal isn't broken, so we know Tirek didn't escape.
Let me guess. You got bad news, too?
Last time I was here, I had to use magic to get in. And according to Star Swirl, all unicorn magic was gone by yesterday's sunset.
Maybe he was wrong.
Don't worry, Twilight. I got this.
Free pizza delivery!
Huh. Always worked before. Oh, well.
Did any of y'all pack somethin' that could actually help?
These all do magic, but not the kind we're looking for, I'm afraid.
How about this?
The Key of Unfettered Entrance! Where did you find this, Spike?
In your bag. Cozy Glow must've packed it for you.
She really did think of everything.
Um, what does it do?
It can magically open any door. And since artifacts like this haven't lost their power yet...
I guess it only works once.
Cockatrice!
Do something, Fluttershy!
Don't look at it! It'll turn you to stone!
I don't feel like stone.
Unless it's really bouncy stone.
I think he lost his magic, too. All the creatures here must have.
Star Swirl said that would happen on the second day.
I know it should make me feel safer, but it just makes me sad. We gotta fix this!
Where is Princess Twilight?!
Oh, golly. She's away on a quest. I'm watching the school for her.
Magic is failing across our land, and she left a foal in charge of this facility?
Yes, sir! Is there anything I can do for you?
That won't be necessary. Twilight's folly stops here. As of now, I am headstallion. And I have quite a few changes to make.
If all these monsters lost their magic, then getting past Cerberus should be easy-peasy!
Look out!
I'll talk to him.
Um, excuse me, puppy?
You're a very good guard dog. Yes, you are. But, um, we were wondering if we could get by to check on Tirek.
That looks like a yes.
I'll get you a towel, darling.
The Princess of Friendship here for a visit. What have I done to earn the honor of your company?
We want answers, Tirek. Magic is disappearing from Equestria.
I know. What a waste of such... [slurping] ...mmmm, delicious power.
So you are behind this!
Silly filly, if I had all of that magic, you think I'd still be locked up in here? But I might know something about it...
What are you doing?! Those are Twilight's student files!
These aren't. Not anymore. With Equestria under attack, ponies must stand together. Twilight has endangered us all by skipping off on friendship trips while these dangerous creatures run loose.
You don't think they're the reason magic is disappearing, do you?
Yes, and I came to warn Twilight. But since she is gone, it falls to me to protect you foals from these monsters.
Did you hear something?
It sounded like it came from over there!
You again. As I suspected.
From now on, this school is pony-only! As nature intended.
Since you refuse to explain your plot against Equestria and return the magic you stole, you will stay here while I summon your guardians to take you home.
Wait! You were right about them from the beginning, Chancellor. I see that now.
What are you saying?!
Sandbar?!
I don't want anything to do with creatures that could threaten Equestria!
Wisely put, colt.
Everypony will come to their senses eventually.
What in tarnation?!
Sorry. I ran out of apples. I need the Cutie Mark Crusaders. My friends are in trouble. Chancellor Neighsay locked them up.
Huh? I thought Cozy Glow was in charge.
Not anymore. But you guys are good buddies. If you can convince her to distract Neighsay, I can break out my friends. Will you help me?
Do mulberries have seeds?
That's a yes.
Where is Equestria's magic going, Tirek? What's making it disappear?
If you let me out, I'm sure it will jog my memory. What do you say? I scratch your back, you scratch mine?
How about you tell us what you know or you'll be stuck here forever, because we're out of magic keys and nopony can open the door?
Oh, dear. I hadn't thought of that.
We're just as trapped as Tirek?
[chuckles] What a pity. Well, for you. Sweet revenge for me. It seems my little protégé's plan worked after all.
Which little protégé?
Oh, we've never met. We're pen pals. Each letter had so many questions about draining magic.
And you answered them?!
I was bored. So I simply pointed my pen pal in the right direction.
Can't you just tell us your pen pal's name? I mean, since we're stuck here anyway?
Oh, why not? The irony is too perfect. Her name is...
Cozy Glow! I-I could've sworn I saw her come down this way when she left her office.
Enjoying yourself in there, Starlight? I'm sorry I had to push you in. But what else could I do? You were going to ruin all my plans.
Magic is disappearing all across Equestria!
Didn't we learn about a creature that eats magic?
Somepony should investigate.
We'll go.
I thought Starlight Glimmer was gonna be temporary headmare.
With Equestria under attack, ponies must stand together.
I need the Cutie Mark Crusaders. My friends are in trouble.
It seems my little protégé's plan worked after all.
Cozy Glow is behind all of this?!
Um, there's seven of us.
I knew we shouldn't have left!
But Starlight's in charge at the school. If anypony can stop Cozy Glow, it's her.
We have to get out of here. Her students can't handle Cozy on their own.
Not everything can be solved with brute force. We need magic to escape.
Maybe there's a way to get out without magic. Like a secret lever or a secret button or a secret admirer who knows a secret about you but is all, "Your secret's safe with me because I put it in Tartarus and I have a key!"
I'm afraid not. The most powerful villains and monsters of all time are trapped here. And without our magic, so are we.
Unless... These creatures might be losing their magical powers, but there's still a magic that makes up what they are. Maybe we can borrow some of that.
Uh, excuse me? Um, Chancellor Neighsay?
You might as well get used to calling me Headstallion Neighsay. I plan to be here for quite some time.
Gee, it sure is a relief to have somepony in charge, what with the magical crisis going on. And we're all so grateful to you for taking care of those... non-ponies. But doesn't the EEA need you?
What the EEA needs is somepony to protect this school from the threats at Equestria's borders instead of gallivanting off on adventures beyond them.
Twilight didn't just run off willy-nilly. She left me in charge. I'm her right-hoof mare!
Another in a long list of mistakes the Princess of Friendship has made. Rest assured, from now on, this school shall be run according to strict EEA guidelines.
The way it always should've been.
Well, that sounds just peachy—
...Headstallion Neighsay.
Cozy Glow did all of this? How? Why?
I don't know. But come on, y'all. We gotta get Starlight out of there before she comes back.
Wait!
Sweetie Belle!
Help!
That's gotta be what's suckin' up all the magic in Equestria.
But if that's true, then Twilight and the others went to Tartarus for nothing. And if all of Equestria's magic's getting sucked up in there, there's no way for them to get back!
We need to get help!
But Starlight's trapped here, and there's no way to get word to Celestia or anypony else!
I guess we're on our own.
Still locked, huh?
We gotta at least try to get out.
Why? If Sandbar's turned his back on us, every other pony probably has, too.
Sandbar not turn his back! Sandbar is our friend!
Uh, did you miss the part where he said he didn't want anything to do with us?
Maybe he just said that so one of us could be free to snoop around and figure out what's going on.
I dunno. That sounds too clever for a pony to come up with.
[gasps, laughs] Yona knew Sandbar was still our friend!
We all are.
Except for Cozy Glow. That pony is not who we thought she was.
She's the one draining magic out of Equestria!
What?!
We'll explain on the way. But right now, we gotta get to get to Chancellor Neighsay.
Huh?
I know he doesn't like non-ponies. But if we tell him what's going on, he'll help.
I am sure you are all concerned about the magic situation. But I want to assure you that this institution is safe, despite the absence of your headmare. As your new headstallion, let me be the first to say that the reign of Princess Twilight is over! From now on, this school will adhere to EEA doctrine, as it should have from the start!
[claps] Thank you, Chancellor Neighsay, for that rousing speech. I know you're a stallion who truly believes what you say. And when you say this school will be run according to EEA doctrine, I know you mean it. And when you say there won't be any more lessons from the Princess of Friendship at the School of Friendship, I guess you mean that, too.
That's not exactly what—
But Twilight decided to run her school outside of the EEA guidelines. And even though you tried to stop her, Princesses Celestia and Luna trusted her enough to support her.
Well, I-I wouldn't say that—
So, since I know you mean what you say, my question is really for the students. Are we going to give the pony who already tried to wreck Twilight's school once another chance to do it?
I guess things will have to stay the way Twilight wants them. Which includes leaving me in charge.
This—! I can—! Just—!
Okay. So maybe we need a new plan.
Oh, oh, not too tight. We don't want to hurt the Chancellor.
I'm sure Twilight will know what to do with him when she gets back. Now, back to class, everyone. We let the EEA disrupt our friendship studies long enough.
[grunting] Why are you doing this? I thought you wanted to have somepony in charge of the school.
Oh, I do. You just aren't the pony I had in mind.
Hey, Cozy Glow! What's so funny?
Are you just happy to be running the school?
Oh, I'm just keeping Twilight's seat warm.
Still, it's pretty impressive.
Is there anything we can do to help?
We can hang out with you all day if you want.
You know, there is something I need help with.
Oh, wonderful. I suppose you've all come to gloat?
Actually, we've come to undo all these chains and free you!
But... But why?
Now that nasty pony met even nastier pony, maybe nasty pony not be so nasty.
Also, we'd kind of like to stop Cozy before she drains all the magic from Equestria.
She's behind that as well? I must get word to Celestia and Luna.
How? Without magic, it'll take forever to get to them.
While it's true that unicorns have lost their ability to cast spells, the most potent magic in Equestria is housed in our... artifacts. The EEA medallion allows me to travel throughout Equestria. Its magic worked when I chained you up. Perhaps it still has enough to send me to the princesses.
I hope he makes it.
I hope he doesn't come back and lock us up again.
If he comes back.
Everything's gonna be fine! Twilight and the others are probably already on their way!
Um, are you sure there's magic in Cerberus? Clarissa the pig has two tails, and while her singing voice is lovely, I don't think it's magical.
We need to try everything if we want to get out of here.
I don't know. Tartarus isn't so bad. I could hang out here for a while!
Eh. Maybe not forever though.
But that is just what it will be! If my protégé has followed my instructions, by sunset tonight, every last vestige of Equestrian magic will disappear into the ether forever!
Have you even thought about what losing magic would mean?
It means the six of you will be trapped here! Like me!
Seven!
Exactly. It means you're trapped here. Forever. With us.
Uhhhh... I hadn't thought of it like that.
So, what do we do, Twilight?
Dash and Applejack nearly have Cerberus tired out. If Rarity pitches in, I think they can get him to sit still long enough to try what I have in mind.
I'm sure I can get the other monsters to help. [whispering, to Spike] Besides, I would never call them monsters.
What about Tirek? He's probably got some magic, too, right?
Leave him to me.
[to Cerberus] Down!
Okay, everyone! Time to show Equestria that you aren't monsters! You're wonderful, mystical creatures!
I know it's not your birthday, so You get a party, even though We'll sing and dance from one to ten And then we'll do it all again!
More tea, Princess Pudding Rock? [high-pitched voice] "Oh! Don't mind if I do!" [laughs] I can do this all eternity.
Fine! I'll help you leave! Just please stop!
Tirek's in!
It's just so excitin' to have a foal our age runnin' things. We should have an ice cream social every day!
That's a splendid idea, Apple Bloom. But to tell you the truth, the thing I need help with most is cleaning.
Say no more. Just take us around the school and show us everything you want cleaned.
Well, actually, you could start right in here.
It looks pretty clean already.
Do you three think you can fool me?! I know a diversion when I see it!
Uh, why pony lead us back down here?
We obviously can't handle Cozy on our own. But we can't just sit around and wait for help. So, there's one more prisoner I think we should free.
Ooh! I guess Starlight! Is it Starlight?
Counselor pony, come out! We need help with nasty pony!
She can't talk to us from in there. We'll have to figure a way to get her out.
Hey! This is just like chapter twelve in "Kanthaka's Facts and Artifacts" from Twilight's class!
What? I've been studying. Finals are coming up, you know?
Actually, I remember that, too! Cozy must've linked these artifacts to act like a mystical magnet, attracting all the magic in Equestria into that orb.
So, we can shut it down by yanking one of these things out, right?
Sure, though that would probably cause a magical feedback loop and destroy the whole school!
Destroy the School of Friendship?! Oh, dear! Chancellor Neighsay was wrong about a lot of things, but I guess he was right about all of you!
All right. Is everypony ready?
[to Cerberus] Sit! Good! [to Twilight Sparkle] I can't say for how much longer.
All eternity!
Yes, by all means, please! Just get on with it!
There's your cue, you evil centaur, you.
That's it! I think it's working!
Come on! I don't know how long I can hold it!
[to Cerberus] Good boy!
[to creatures] Bye, friends. Hopefully, we'll be able to turn you all back into your normal, wonderful selves soon.
[to Lord Tirek] Thanks for the assist, your redness!
Yay! Twilight did it!
I couldn't have done it without all your help.
I'm not sure we did!
No!
Tirek said all of Equestria's magic would be gone at sunset.
Without magic, there's no way we'll get back to the school in time!
What does that mean?
It means... we've failed!
After everything Twilight's done for you, why would you want to destroy her school?
We don't! You're the one using these artifacts to drain magic from Equestria!
Me?! We all just saw you with your claws all over them! [gasps] It all makes sense. These creatures want magic gone from Equestria because it's the only thing ponies have that they don't!
Technically, there's a magical component when Silverstream and I transform.
And Yona's friends' friendship is magic! Twilight said!
And you repay her by sending her to Tartarus on a wild goose chase so you could destroy everything she built! [gasps] They've even trapped Starlight in that-that thing! We have to defend this school!
No! No, don't listen to her!
Gallus!
"Citrine Spark": They just sacrificed themselves trying to save their friend. Professor Dash always said there's nothing more loyal than that. Shouldn't we try to save them?
They brought this on themselves. There's nothing we can do.
S08E01 Unnamed Earth Mare # That doesn't seem very generous. Or kind.
Yeah, yeah. The Elements of Harmony are very important. They're just not applicable in every circumstance. And with magic gone from Equestria, I'm not even sure the Tree of Harmony will be as helpful as it once was.
What's happening?!
S08E01 Unnamed Earth Mare # They're glowing like the Elements! I think the Tree of Harmony saved them!
Guess our friendship is pretty magical after all.
Hurry! Grab the artifacts!
Um, didn't you say that could destroy the school?
But if we don't try, we could lose magic forever!
You all better get clear!
Wait! Where are you going?! Stoooooop!
[laughs] Counselor pony—!
Uh, it's nice to see you, too.
I guess magic is back.
You've ruined everything! Now Twilight and her ridiculous friends can escape from Tartarus!
I mean... Yay! All my friends are safe!
You can drop the act, Cozy Glow! Your pen pal Tirek told us all about how he helped you suck up all that magic!
But I still don't understand why.
[growls] Why?! Because friendship is power! You might be the Princess of Friendship, but as headmare of this school, I can collect even more friends than you!
You're the one who doesn't get it, Cozy. Friendship is powerful, but power isn't why you make friends. I'm sorry I couldn't teach you that.
Well, you taught us.
You can't let one bad apple make you think you failed.
And we never could've stopped her if we hadn't learned what you taught us about friendship.
Honesty? Loyalty? Generosity? Blah-blah-blah! I can make more friends without using any of them! And if I can't do it here, I'll do it somewhere else!
"Patty Peppermint": Yeah... I don't think so!
[sighs] I'm glad you're back in charge of the School of Friendship, Princess.
It's clear to me now that there is nopony better suited for the job.
What's going on?
Hi, Headmare Twilight! We're just practicing for graduation!
Graduation?
Now that we've saved Equestria, we figure we're done with school.
Saving Equestria is nice, but I'm afraid it'll take more than one semester to learn all there is to know about friendship.
[belches] Told ya.
Awwww...
Your headmare is right. I thought friendship was something only ponies should share with each other. But you all taught me how wrong I was. I suppose true friendship can take a lifetime to understand.
If it were easy to learn, we wouldn't need a school.
[yelps] We held her off as long as we could!
But she locked us in this closet!
What happened?! Is everything all right?! Where's Cozy Glow?!
Everything worked out just fine.
As for Cozy Glow, I can assure you — where she's going, she won't be causing any more trouble.
Of course it's boring here now! But at least you're not in a cage!
Hey, neighbor. Wanna be friends?
Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey!
See the ponies trottin' down the street Equestria is where they wanna meet They all know where they wanna go And they're trottin' in time And they're trottin', yeah
They got the beat They got the beat They got the beat Yeah, they got the beat
Go-go music really makes us dance Do the pony, puts us in a trance Do the watusi, just give us a chance That's when we fall in line
'Cause we got the beat We got the beat We got the beat Yeah, we got it!
'Scuse me! Dragon on the move! Important princess documents comin' through!
S04E26 Unnamed Earth Mare # Whoa! Everypony from Manehattan to Saddle Arabia is here!
I know, filly! We almost couldn't book a stable!
Princess Twilight must have her hooves full with this giant Festival!
Are you kidding?! She's smart and organized and cool under pressure! There's nothing she can't handle!
Ommmmm... Ohhhhhhh mmmmy goodness, I can't handle this! Ooh! Nothing is working! I just have to get it together! Just go in there! And ask! This is your Friendship Festival! Everypony's happiness rests in your hooves. [facehoofs] Ohhhh!
Okay, Twilight. Got all your charts and graphs.
Oh, thank goodness you're here, Spike! I'm just so nervous about this meeting!
Whachoo talkin' 'bout?
[sighs] I'm about to ask the three most royal princesses of Equestria for a huge favor! What if they reject me?
It'll be fine. Just remember the most important thing.
Smile?!
Eh... no. You're a Princess, too.
Right! [exhales] Good morning, Princesses. Thank you all for seeing me. I have an idea that I think will make our Friendship Festival the most wonderful celebration Equestria has ever seen!
Yes, Twilight! We are very excited!
Ponies have been arriving from all over all morning.
I'd like to think it's to see us, but Songbird Serenade might be the bigger attraction.
Yes, she is the... "mane" event! [giggles] And to make it extra special, I could use your help. Spike?
Songbird Serenade's performance is not scheduled to start until after you begin the sunset. And based on my precise calculation, to get the very best lighting for the stage, Princess Celestia, I was hoping you could make sure the sun stays about 28.1º to the south, and, Princess Luna, if you could raise the moon 62º to the north at the same time, it would reflect the sunlight on the other side and really frame the entire stage perfectly!
I...
But wait! There's more! Cadance, if you could use your crystal magic to create an aurora above the stage, the sun and the moon will shine through it and create a truly amazing light show!
Presenting Songbird Serenade! Yeah, yeah, yeah! Whoa-ho!
Whoa!
[weakly] Ta-da...
So you're saying you want us to move the sun and the moon for the party.
Twilight, each of us uses our powers to serve Equestria in our own way. You are the Princess of Friendship. You already have all the magic you need.
So... that'd be a no?
Yes!
Sky's cleared and ready for the festival!
Whoa!
Whoa! Heads up, Fluttershy! Out of control balloooooon!!
Hoo. I don't think it's the balloon that's out of control, Pinkie Pie!
Hey, y'all!
Anypony up for some free samples of my family's apple cider?
Ah! Thank you! Loved it!
Wow, Rarity. It's a fine job you're doin' there. 'Course it might not get done 'til after the concert.
Applejack, darling, anypony can do "fine". Twilight asked me, so clearly, she's going for fabulous, and fabulous takes time.
Fabulous takes forever! But "awesome"...
Whoa!
...can get done in four seconds flat! Faster if I do my sonic rainboom!
Aah! Nono, oh no! Don't you dare, Rainbow Dash! It looks wretched enough already.
Oh come on, it's fine!
If you were raised in a barn! Ahem, no offense, Applejack.
None taken. Especially since I wasn't raised in a barn. My family just happens to have a barn. Where I was born. And... spent most of my formative years...
[very quickly] Raised in a barn!
Okay, just two hundred and eighteen things left to do and we're ready.
Rainbow Dash, Applejack, Hey, Twilight!
Hello, Spike.
Uh, hi, Rarity. Heh heh.
How'd it go with the other Princesses? They like your idea?
I bet they loved it!
[sighs] Not exactly. They think I can make today perfect without their magic.
And they are absolutely right, darling. This festival is your brilliant idea and we know you're up to the task!
But what if I'm not?! What if Songbird Serenade hates the stage?! Or nopony makes a new friend?! And if I fail at the festival, then who am I?!
But you have us! So stop worrying.
Ah!
It's time to show 'em what you've got
It's time to go and get things done
But you don't have to do it on your own
'Cause you've got friends right here to make it fun
We got this, you got this We got this together
Huh?
Whoa!
Sometimes the pressure gets you down And the clouds are dark and grey Just kick them off and let the sun shine through
And scary as it seems, more help is on the way 'Cause friends have friends that wanna help out, too
We got this, you got this We got this together
It's the Festival of Friendship And we can get it done A festival that they won't forget
A party to be proud of A day of games and fun Just you wait and see A magic day in perfect harmony
You got this
We got this together
With friends and family, you are never alone If you need help, we've got your back You can be honest, let your problems be known
'Cause you got us to pick up the slack We got this
Eeyup!
We got this together
Pay attention to the details Every gem even-spaced Make the colors perfect
Takin' one or two to taste
Inside and out, beautiful throughout Generosity is what we're all about
[mouthful] You got this
You got this
We got this together
Today needs to be perfect, it all comes down to me I don't know if I'm ready For all the things they need me to be I am the Princess of Friendship But that is more than just a crown It's a promise to bring ponies together And never let anypony down
We've got an awful lot to bake Each pony needs a piece of cake Oh, wait! There's something better we can do
We're gonna need some more supplies To make a really big surprise She'll be so shocked—she's sure to love it, too!
You got this! We got this together!
It's the Festival of Friendship Together we are one A day we will never forget
And now everything is ready So when the day is done
The weather
The banquet
The style
And music
All will be in perfect harmony!
Pinkie!
Oopsie! Guess my easy bake confetti cake cannon needs a little bit more fine tuning!
[nickers] Hmmm...
Songbird Serenade? Is it really her? It is, it is!
Hiya. I'm lookin' for the pony in charge?
I need to set up for my sound check.
Ms. Songbird Serenade? Um, I was just going to check on you. [laughs nervously] I'm Princess Twilight, and sorry about the mess. I'm usually not so...
Oh! How embarrassing!
Caked in cake?
Heh heh.
You have visual on buttercream?
Visual confirmed. Go for cleanup.
[gasps] Storm clouds? I ordered perfect weather! Rainbow Dash?!
Uh... I... don't think those are storm clouds.
Ooh! I bet those are the clowns I ordered!
...Or definitely not the clowns I ordered.
Brian, no!
[clears throat, voice echoing] Ponieth of Equethtria, we come on behalf of the fearsome, the powerful, the almighty...Thtorm King!
This is terrible!
And now, to deliver the evil, evil methage, put your hooveth together for Commander Tempeeeetht!
Is that a... unicorn?
I think so, but what happened to her horn?
"Tempest" is it? How may we help you?
Oh, I'm so glad you asked. How about we start with your complete and total surrender?
Hi there. Princess of Friendship. Not exactly sure what's going on, but I know we can talk things out.
Oh, goody. All four Princesses. Here's the deal, ladies. I need your magic. Give it up nicely, please, or we make it difficult for everyone!
And why should we cower before you? There's one of you and hundreds of us.
[chuckles] I was hoping you'd choose "difficult".
Cadance!
[gasps] I can't... stop it!
Luna, quick! Go south beyond the Badlands!
Hmph!
Luna!
Twilight!
[chuckles] Easy as pie.
Oh, I love pie. Oh, you totally got the latht Printheth!
That's not the Princess! Grubber, get her now!
Guyth, we gotta get the Princess!
Over here, y'all!
Come on!
Which one of you guyth ith goin' down there?
[sighs] I would, but I jutht had a hearty meal, and I will think and I will thide-cramp. I'm very big-boned. I think quick.
Everypony okay?
I think my bottom's on backward.
We just got our cupcakes handed to us by the worst party crasher ever!
We gotta go back there and fight!
Well, you saw the size of those goons. You seriously wanna go back?
So now what? We can't hide here forever. And let's be honest, we can't go back. Look at what they did to the Princesses. We gotta keep them from Twilight.
The Queen.
Yeah, the Queen! Uh, what queen?
Celestia told Luna to find the Queen of the... "Hippos". Luna can't, so I have to.
Uh, hippos? Seriously?
I've heard they're surprisingly graceful for their size. Huh, but they're always hungry.
Hungry?
Hippos?
They're somewhere south, past the Badlands.
That means we'll have to... leave Equestria. Oh!
I'm not even packed!
I understand you're scared, and nopony else has to go. But I have to find this queen. She might be our only hope.
Well, you're not getting all the glory. We're in this together.
We got your back.
Indeedy!
I am ready to save Equestria!
Yay.
We're all behind you, Twilight.
Let's go find this hippo!
Uh, south?
Hehe! Whee! [giggles] Whee! Boingy-boingy-boingy-boingy-boingy! Anypony up for a game of "I Spy"?
All this power wasted on parties when there are far greater uses.
Well? Answer it!
Where am I supposed to be looking? I never understand how this spell works. Tempest!
Over here, Your Excellency.
Where?
Over here.
Huh?
No. No, right. Look right.
My right?
Yep.
Oh. There you are. Here's the deal. I'm in the middle of a big re-brand here. "The Storm King" is tracking well as "intensely intimidating", but you know what? I need to back it up. You know what I need to back it up with? A storm! That would be great! You promised me magic that could control the elements, and right now, I'm holding a what? A branch. A twig. Bleh!
Uh, that would be the Staff of Sacanas, Your Excellency, and it will...
Mm-hmm?
...channel the magic of the four rulers of this land.
Mm-hmmmm?
You'll soon have the power of a hundred armies.
So that would be a yes on your locking down the four Pegacornicuseses, or whatever you call them?
Give me three days. I'll have everything ready for your arrival.
[ominous] Remember, Tempest. Only I have the power to make you whole. Make this twig work, and you'll get your reward. Fail me, and your horn won't be the only thing that's broken.
It won't be a problem.
[upbeat] Great! [warbling] I'm ready to power up, crash and bash, and be the biggest, baddest bugaloooooo...
Thorry, bad thpell thervice. You want me to call him back?
Do you have the Princess?
Well, uh, funny thtory. It kinda theemth like she... she might've like, you know, got away... a little bit. I know you're dithappointed, but I got one word for you: "thpongecake".
I need all four for the staff to work.
Hey, I know! I want the Thtorm King to fix that crazy horn as badly as you do. It lookth like a crackly chipped tooth on the top of your head. And you know you don't look good in hatth.
That Princess is not gonna keep me from getting my horn back! Prepare my ship!
Ihhh!
Please. How far could one little pony get on her own?
We could be going in... circles! Endless... sand... [inhales] Nothin' for miles... but sand... [breathes] and this rock... [coughs] and this cactus... [breathes] and this roooooooooaaaaaad.... [breathes, faints, breathes] ...this rooooooad....
Whoa!
Cool!
What is that?
Oooh! A city! [scoffs] We are doing it, you guys!
You know what they say: where there's a city, there's a spa!
Who says that?
'Case you forgot, we're on a mission to save Equestria.
I can multitask.
Don't worry, little one, we'll let ya go!
To the highest bidder!
Nice!
Storm King bobbleheads!
Ooh. Hey! You with the horn, you selling?
Oh...
Ooh!
Hi there! Ooh, I'm sorry. Here. Lemme help you with that.
Hey! No magic around my merchandise!
Hmmm... Very interesting...
Okay. We just gotta stick together. Be careful who you talk to. And try to blend in.
Can I have your attention please?!
Can anypony take us to the Queen of the Hippos?!
You want something? You gotta give something!
Well, how about a big warm hug from a grateful pony friend?
How about this comb that I've never used? A picture of my sister Maud? This breath mint? Seriously, buddy. Help me help you.
Pinkie, you can't just take off! [through clenched teeth] And you don't need to announce to every...
Relax, Twilight! I totally got this!
How much for the giant gecko?
Huh?
Who you callin' a gecko?
Uh, Spike isn't for sale.
I want that fancy purple hair! I'll give ya two storm bucks for it!
Two storm bucks?! It's worth more than that!
Heh?
Gimme that pink one!
 I'll take the blue one!
No! I want the blue one!
I need that lizard!
I'll take that picture of your sister!
I want all seven for my collection!
Back up, everyone! Back it up! Y'all in some serious danger! Now you didn't touch any of them, did you? Just look at all those colors! You think that's natural? They're infected with "pastelis coloritis".
Now, you listen here, fella, there ain't—
Don't worry, don't worry, as long as you're not covered in purple splotches, you'll be fine. Uh-oh.
[gasps] What do I do?!
Enjoy your last moments and don't touch anyone. Because parts will fall off.
[screams] Me parts!
You are awesome!
Mm-hm.
Huh!
Capper's the name. Charming's my game. So... to the Hippos, then?
I don't know if we should trust him.
We could definitely use a friend out here!
You know what? Little Cotton Candy Hair is right. And, if I do say so myself...
This town is not a nice place For little fillies all alone There are lots of twists and corners That could lead to the unknown
Let me guide your way And I'll be sure to help you through You could really use a friend out here And luckily for you...
I'm the friend that you need When you're lost and don't know what to do I'm your pal, your amigo Useful and resourceful, too
And my help, you'll concede Is a plus guaranteed You can call and I'll come running Just follow my lead 'Cause I'm the friend you need!
[Klugetown Wool-Seller] He's a friend
Quite a friend!
You need a bud to spot the danger A pal to stop the creep A chum and not a stranger to assist
You need a bro who is cunning That can help you take the leap A friend who knows what's lying in the mist
Don't fear these darkened alleys They're scary, yes, I know Why, you could use a friend To protect you wherever you go
And such a dazzling beauty Covered in dirt and muck But now your fate is changing Now you are in luck
'Cause I'm the friend that you need When you're lost and don't know what to do I'm your pal, your amigo Lookin' out for friends like you
And my help, you'll concede Is a plus guaranteed Just call and I'll come running We'll say it's agreed...
Here. Tell Verko, "My place, twenty minutes." I've got something that will "magically" erase all my debt.
'Cause I'm the friend you need!
[Applejack, Fluttershy, Pinkie Pie, and Rainbow Dash] He's a friend
Quite a friend!
He's a friend indeed!
Welcome, my little ponies, to my little manor.
Ooh! A sort of a roco-hobo-Bohemian hodgepodge.
Apologies for the state of my litter box. I wasn't expecting guests.
Ooh! So many fun breakables!
Whoa!
Y'all sure y'all want the Hippos?
Yessirree! The Queen of the Hippos!
Not like the Queen of the Lions, or Tigers, or Bears?
Oh, my!
Huh?
You really think the ponieth got thith far?
[sniffs] Oh, they're here. Attention! A little purple pony passed this way. Tell me where she is...
You think we're gonna fall for this again? I don't know what kinda scam you're workin' with Capper and the rest of your friends, but--
"Friends?"
Poison or no poison, you're gonna pay!
Ohhhh, Fishman juth got dropped!
Now...
Ihhhh...
...about this... "Capper"...
Stop playin' me! A sonic rainboom? That's not a real thang! Is that a real thing?
I'll show ya!
Naw-naw-naw, I don't need you sonic "rainbooming" up in my place, thank you very much. Whoa, hey, hold up now. Whoa.
Here you go. I do apologize. If we were back home, I could've done something truly fabulous.
Okay... What's the catch?
Nothing. After all that you've done for us, consider it a "thank you".
Oh. Uh, don't thank me. Really.
Guys! We've been looking for the wrong queen! We don't need the Queen of the Hippos! We need the Queen of the Hippogriffs! Part pony, part eagle!
Oh! Oh, the Hippogriffs! Now, the trouble with that is... no one knows... where they are...
Says here they're on the top of Mount Aris!
You mean the mountain right outside the window?
Objects in windows may be less mountainous than they appear. Heh heh heh...
Let's go, everypony.
[gasps] Wait! [cat yowl] You can't—you can't make it by y'allselves. You need an airship! And lucky for you, I can get you a ride.
I think we can get there on our own.
These ponies better shoot rainbow lasers out their eyes if they're gonna settle your debt! Brought the big cage. Let's load 'em up!
You were... You were going to sell us?
I knew it! We gotta get outta here!
Silly little ponies.
Tempest!
[resumes chuckling] Trusting strangers? Big mistake. Big...
Huge!
Hoo-hoo! My goodness! Well, look at you! With your scary broken horn and scowly eyes. What tricks do you know, my little pony-wony?
Go! Go!
Get her now!
You gonna be thcared now, ponieth!
I'm... gonna... be... sick!
We have to get there! To the docks! Hurry!
That's it.
Don't look down now!
Yay!
Dah!
Pinkie!
Best... escape... plan... ever!
WHAT?!?! Thwa!
Shh!
Did you hear something?
Eh, probably just the rats. If we find 'em, we'll eat 'em.
Rats?
Now... where are they going?
Okay. No need for violence. Uh, they're headed...
When I get my Princess. Until then, your fate is still... up in the air.
We make a great team. I love it how you thaid hith fate wuth "up in the air", and then I thaid, "you're gonna be in the air on an air-boat!"
Blugh!
Whadaya think, Twilight? Should we just... ask 'em to take us?
Last time we trusted somepony, he tried to sell us!
Hey, guys! Come check this out!
Looks like a pack of stowaways.
What are we s'posed to do with 'em?
I think we tie 'em up!
[squawks] We clip their wings!
Nah. We scar 'em...
...emotionally!
Wai-wai-wai-wait. What say the book, Captain Celaeno?
Storm King's rule book says, "Throw them overboard."
Huh?
All right! That's lunch!
What?
Whoa whoa whoa! So you were about to toss us overboard and you stopped for a lunch break?
Storm King only allows one break a day for meals, then it's back to hauling goods.
So you're delivery guys?
And gals. These uniforms aren't exactly doing us any favors.
Then can you deliver us to Mount Aris?
Sorry. We do what the Storm King orders or we suffer his wrath.
Right. Still going overboard.
Eh, it's nothing personal. Pudding?
There's pudding?
Oh.
You weren't always delivery birds, were you? What about before the Storm King?
Yeah. We used to be much more adventurous.
Ooh! I met that guy in the desert!
Whoa! You used to be pirates?!
Um, we prefer the term "swashbuckling treasure hunters".
So... pirates.
You birds have a choice to make. You could let some cloven-hoofed Storm King tell you how to live your lives, or...
...you could be awesome again!
Rainbow Dash, this really isn't a good time for a—
I know the world can get you down
—song.
Things don't work out quite the way that you thought Feeling like all your best days are done Your fears and doubts are all you've got
But there's a light shining deep inside Beneath those fears and doubts, so just squash 'em And let it shine for all the world to see That it is time, yeah, time to be awesome
Ah, ah, ah-ah, awesome! It's time to be so awesome! Ah, ah, ah-ah, awesome! It's time to be so awesome!
You've no idea how hard it's been
(It's time to be awesome!)
This dull routine we've been forced to do
Don't let them rob you of who you are Be awesome, it's all up to you
I feel the light stirring deep inside It's like a tale still yet to be told
(It's time to be awesome!)
And now it's time to break the shackles free And start living like the brave and the bold!
It's time to be awesome! Let loose, be true, so awesome! It's time to be awesome! Go big, be you, so awesome!
We used to soar through the clouds in the skies
Elaborate schemes we would love to devise
 We rescued our treasure and stored it away
Saving those gemstones for a rainy day
We see that light filling up our skies
So take the Storm King's orders and toss 'em
'Cause it's the time to let our colors fly
Hey, scallywags, it's time to be awesome!
Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey!
Come on! Let's show these little ponies how it's done!
Awesome! I knew you had it in ya! And now for the finishing touch!
Rainboom! Rainboom! Rainboom! Rainboom!
No no no no no! No!
Wow!
Ohhh!
[slurping] Huh? Huh? Looka that rainbow! Looka that rainbow! Whoa, that'th so cool!
Yeah. Of them to alert us. Funny, though. [to Capper] They don't seem to be heading to Black Skull Island.
Like "ha ha" funny or... ha ha...
Yeah! Ha ha!
Nice!
Storm guards! Looks like they found you!
Tempest!
Secure the rigging! Lock down the cargo! Everyone, prepare to be boarded!
Oh my goodness!
Ya think she saw my sonic rainboom?
Are you kidding me?!?!
Whoa!
Where is the Pony Princess?
"Princess"? Prin-Cess, Prin-Cess... Nope. All we're hauling is Storm King merchandise.
You do realize that if you were to shelter fugitives, the Storm King would be quite... explosive.
[whispering loudly] We have to get off this ship before they tell Tempest we're here!
[whispering loudly] We helped them get their mojo back! They're not gonna give us up!
Whoa!
I've got this!
Now, I'm gonna count to three, and if you don't tell me where they are, your ship is going down. One...
Hold this!
What are you doing?!
...two...
Oh, thith is inteeenth!
Three!
What?
Oh, for Celestia's sake!!!
[screams, laughs] Whee!
[yells] I can't look!
[screams] Ooh! [resumes screaming] Huh?
Ooh!
Whee!
Huh?
What in the hay is she up to?
Whee-hee-hee!
Thank goodness.
Phee-yew! Quick thinkin', Twilight!
Yahoo! Ha ha!
That was fun! Can we do it again?
Next stop, Mount Aris!
We're home free!
There'th no ponieth. But I found thith. It'th a... kind of a cupcake... with thprinkleth... Oh, yeah, and I found thith, too.
Huh.
Wow, this is a real artitht!
Looks like they're heading to Mount Aris.
Really? [stammering and laughing nervously] Mou- Mount Aris? I... Well, that's my mis— I didn't know that... Mount Ari... My bad, I didn't... That's my... I'm sorry, I'm very very sorry.
Now, about your betrayal...
We had to crash the balloon at the bottom of the mountain! That's it! I simply... cannot... even! I have nothing! The bad guys have won! I'm so sorryyyyyyyy-y-y-y!
We're almost there!
[growls] Will you stop saying that?!
No, really! We're actually here!
[gasps] This is it!
Ooh!
Well, I'll be. [laughs] Hippogriffs, here we come!
[sighs] Time to rest my hooves!
Are we sure this is the right place?
Hello?! Is anypony home?!
No Hippogriffies here! Or here! Or here! Or here or here or here! Waaaaaiiit! Nope! This place is emp-ty!
But... Celestia... The map. They have to be here.
Something bad happened here. Something that turned this whole place into a ghost town.
A g-g-g-g-ghost town?!
[gasps] It's coming from over there!
[gasps] What was that?!
Hey! Wait up! Cannonball!
Pinkie!
[sputters] She's gone!
Now what?
Huh?
Oh, boy. I hate epic adventures.
Way to leave it to the last minute, Twilight!
I didn't make these bubbles!
Then [pants] who did?
Hello? We're looking for the Hippogriffs.
How do I know I can trust you?
Please. The Storm King invaded our land. And we need their help.
The Storm King?! I'm so glad I saved you guys! I'm totally taking you to my mom!
[gasps] Does your mother know where they are?
Hoo-hoo!
We're almost there!
Wow!
Mother, look what I found!
Is it another shell?
Mm-mm.
Because I am telling you if it is another shell, I am— [gasps loudly] Princess Skystar, whatta you done?! You know surface dwellers are forbidden here! Guards!
No no n-no! M-M-Mom, please! It is so not like that! The Storm King is trying to destroy their home, too!
We need to find the Hippogriffs. Do you know what happened to them?
Well, of course I know. I'm the queen. I know everything.
Oh, oh, it's such a good story!
Don't you dare tell them!
Once upon a time, like, a while ago, the Hippogriffs did live on Mount Aris.
Oooh!
Did I not say don't tell them? But hey, I'm just the queen. Don't mind me.
Fine! I can't tell you! But if I could tell you, I'd say that that horned beast did show up to steal their magic!
Seriously?
But, to keep it out of his clutches, their brave and majestic leader, Queen Novo, hid them deep underwater where he could never go! We are... Well, we were the Hippogriffs! Ta-da! [laughs] [whispering] But I totally did not tell you that!
Well, I guess the pearl is out the oyster now. I am Queen Novo.
Hold on now. Lemme get this straight. When the Storm King came, you just abandoned your entire city and fled?
We didn't flee! We swam! Y'know, in order to flee.
But... how?
Oh! Can we show them? Huh? These are the first guests we've had in, like, foreveeerrr! Can we, can we, can we, can we, can we, can we, can we, can we, can we?
Careful, now.
Huh?
Wow!
These fins are divine!
Hey, Applejack, I'll race ya to that coral!
You're on!
Woo-hoo! [giggles] Ooh! Try it, Fluttershy!
[giggles] Yay.
Guys? Guys? What is... [puffs] ...happening?!
Aw, so cute!
This is amazing! With this, we could transform everypony at home into something powerful enough to face the Storm King's army!
Or it could end up in his greedy claws!
But...
Honey, I'm sorry about your home. I truly am. But my responsibility is to protect my subjects. The pearl... is not going anywhere.
But we've come all this way. And you can't just hide down here! Trapped forever! There's so much you're missing!
We are one hundred percent okay with that!
Yes, Jamal?
Ooh! Time for my seaweed wrap.
Yes, a massage, too. Mama needs her deep tissue.
So that's it? We left home for nothin'?
Oh, my gosh! Best... idea! You can stay with us! Forever! [laughs] There are so many things we can do! We can make friendship bracelets out of shells and... picture frames outta shells and... decorative wastebaskets out of shells... Oh, I have so many projects that involve shells, haha! Now I have someone new to share them with! I mean, aside from my friends, Shelly and Sheldon. Right? "Shelly"?
Ooh, ooh...
That sounds lovely, darling, but you must realize, we can't stay.
We've gotta get back to our families.
Oh, no. Of course. Of course. Heh. Of course you have your own friends back home. It's fine. It's fine. Heh. [whispering] Shelly and Sheldon get jealous anyways. Heh. It's probably for the best. [sighs] Yeah, I'll just, um... [sadly] I'll get Mom to, uh, turn you back so you can go home.
I know we have to go, but you guys saw how disappointed Princess Skystar was. Couldn't we stay for just a little longer?
Pinkie, we just don't have time for—
Oh, no. No no. Pinkie's right.
Say what now?
Well, we still need to come up with a plan to get back. A few minutes won't make a huge difference. And if there's anypony who can cram a lifetime of fun into a blink of an eye, it's Pinkie Pie!
So, go ahead and show Skystar the best time ever!
I won't let you down!
I'm counting on it.
[as Shelly] Hey, now, don't be sad [as Sheldon] I know we cannot stay [normal voice] But we've got a couple minutes And a little time to play
I know you have important things So it's okay, just go
But we can still pick one small, little thing To do with you, y'know!
One small thing doesn't seem like a lot One small thing, work with the time you've got Soon, one small thing becomes two After two, perhaps another few Then one small thing is not so small One small thing can be the biggest thing of all
All right now, since you're here Let's see what we can do Swim with the flow until you go Together, me and you
I've got necklaces for everyfish So what else do ya got?
Well, we could play the bubblefish You'll like this one a lot!
One small thing, it's a good place to start
[Applejack, Rainbow Dash, Rarity, and Fluttershy] (Just one small thing)
One small thing, and we don't seem so far apart
[Applejack, Rainbow Dash, Rarity, and Fluttershy] (Don't seem apart)
Soon, one small thing leads to more It's so much more than there was before Just one small thing, and you will see The start of something big for you and me
One small thing
Just one small thing
Or a tall thing
Just one tall thing
Or a sing thing
Just one sing-y thing
Or a bling thing
Just one bling-y thing
A conga thing
Yeah, a conga thing
Or a longah thing
Just one longah thing
A blue thing, true thing, you thing
(Oooh-oooh)
A whee thing, sea thing, me thing
(Oooh-oooh-oooh!)
So many things and everything until our time is done There's one small thing for each and everyone!
One small thing, so much we can create You and me, we started something great It's so amazing, look around At all the happy sights and sounds One small thing is big, it's true You did this all for us I just wish there was one small thing An extra special kind of thing
That we could do for you... One small thing!
Hmm?
Well, I guess there is one small thing we can do.
Ahhh!
The pearl alarm! Oh, no, the pearl alarm!
[struggling] Ow!
No! Please!
All of this so you could sneak in and take the pearl?!
[to Skystar] This is why we don't bring strangers into our home! [to Twilight, ominously] You don't deserve to be one of us.
What were you thinkin'? I mean, stealin' their pearl?
[sighs] It was the only way to save Equestria.
'Cept it wasn't! The Queen was going to say yes! We did what you told us and that's what made her realize we were ponies worth saving! [gasps] Unless... You didn't really want us to show her the best time ever! You just wanted us to distract her!
I never would have done it, but this isn't Equestria! We can't just dance around with con artists, make rainbooms in the sky and expect everything to work out! It's not enough! We are not enough!
No, Twilight! We stuck together! We were gonna get the help we needed! The only thing that stopped us... was you!
Well, I'm doing the best I can!  It's all on me. I'm the one Tempest wants. I'm the last Princess!
You're also the only one who doesn't trust her friends!
Well, maybe, I would've been better off without friends like you!!!
Pinkie, I...
[sniffles] I just can't talk to you right now.
Twilight? It's okay. You'll figure it out.
[muffled] Twilight, look out!
[screams, gasps] No no no no no! Noooooo!
[muffled] Twilight, help me!
Spiiiiiike!!!
Twiliiiiiight!!!
Aww, the "Princess of Friendship". With no friends! [chuckles] And no way out.
Why are you doing this? You're a pony! Just like me.
I'm nothing like you! I'm more than you'll ever be!
It's time you learned a lesson It's time that you understand Don't ever count on anybody else In this or any other land
I once hoped for friendship To find a place among my kind But those were the childish wishes Of someone who was blind
Open up your eyes See the world from where I stand Me, among the mighty You, caged at my command
Open up your eyes Give up your sweet fantasy land It's time to grow up and get wise Come now, little one, open up your eyes
We all start out the same With simple naive trust Shielded from the many ways That life's not fair or just
But then there comes a moment A simple truth that you must face If you depend on others You'll never find your place
And as you take that first step Upon a path that's all your own You see it all so clearly The best way to survive is all alone
Open up your eyes See the world from where I stand Me, among the mighty You, caged at my command
Open up your eyes And behold the faded light It's time to grow up and get wise Come now, little one, open up your eyes
Open up your eyes!
I'm so sorry you felt so alone.
I saw the truth. My "friends" abandoned me when times got tough. Looks like I'm not the only one. Face it, Princess. Friendship has failed you, too.
Friendship didn't fail me. I failed friendship.
[sighs] This whole journey was such a mistake. [gasps] All we wanted was somepony to help us.
[sighs] Ya think, maybe it's time we talk to Twilight?
She's! Been! Taken!!!
What?!
[panting] Twilight's been taken! Tempest! She grabbed her! And took her on her ship!
We gotta get her back!
How? We'll never catch up!
And we got no way to defeat those monsters.
Well, good thing I happen to know of a group of mighty heroes that could handle this easily!
[angrily] Well! Look what the cat dragged in! Himself!
These heroes have faced the Storm King's army and escaped! I've seen them tackle the streets of the roughest towns, break out of the tightest situations, and inspire others to join their cause!
Ooooh.
Now don't get too excited. He's just talkin' about us.
Awww.
They even escaped certain doom at the hooves of Commander Tempest!
Yeah. That was pretty great.
Are you kidding me?! That was awesome!
Figured you could use a claw!
We're on board to help you fight the Storm King! Just not on board our... actual ship.
That crazy unicorn sunk it. But you got back our argh! And we're ready to kick some booty.
Whoa!
Is that what I think it is?
Hellooooooo!! Me again! [giggles] I'm gonna get so grounded, but I talked things over with Shelly and Sheldon and they pointed out that you were just trying to help your friends.
Ahhhh!
So I wanna help too. 'Cause ya know... one small thing... [whispering] can make a really big difference!
That's it, right? We didn't make friends with anypony else?
All right, y'all! I think our course is clear. Y'all ready to do this thang?
We're coming, Twilight!
As soon as we bake up a plan!
I am here and I see your pain Through the storms, through the clouds, the rain I'm telling you you can not escape
Tempest, don't do this. Don't give the Storm King—
Your magic? Did you think you'd keep it all to yourself? Time to share. I'd love for everybody out there to know what I can really do.
Ooh, fascinating!  What can you really do?
Your bidding, of courth, Your Mighty One.
Bidding's good. I like bidding! Um, what are you supposed to be?
I'm the Princess of Friendship!
[laughs] Oh. That's nice. [to Tempest] Why is this one still moving?
She and her friends put up a bit of a fight, but she's alone now. She won't be a problem.
[struggling] No!
[laughs] Check out the light show! Wow! Wow!
Let's get this storm started! Ooh, hey, that's good. I should trademark that.
Not bad. Actually, kinda first rate. What else does it do?
Your Excellency, you promised to restore my horn and give me—
Deh-deh-deh-deh-deh, okay. Hang on.
Uh, yeah, I got a delivery here for a Mister "The Storm King". I was given explicit instructions to bring this here cake to this here castle's throne room.
All right, then. Look here. Could one o' y'all go be a pal, go tell your boss he's not gettin' his "congratulations on subduing defenseless pastel ponies" cake? 'Cause I don't wanna be the one responsible for the big guy missin' his special dessert. You know what I'm sayin'?
Thank you kindly, fellas. I'mma be sure and put in a good word for the botha y'all.
[quietly] Pinkie, quit lookin' so happy! Ya ain't foolin' nopony!
Mmm! Pie! Oh, hello, cake! Ooh! Don't mind if I do!
Mmm! That's some, like, gourmet ithing! Who putth eyeballth in filling? [hyperventilates] Guards!
Uh-oh. Plan B?
The jig is up!
Come on!
Harr!
Oof! [grunts] Gotcha!
Lovely!
Surprise!
Double surprise!!
[whimpers] Ooh!
You seem tense. Do you wanna talk about it?
Huh?
Yeah!
Yeah!
Head for the castle! We'll hold them off!
Come on!
Let it all out.
Fluttershy!
Oh! Sorry, our time is up. Buh-bye!
Goodbye!
Keep going! Shelly? Sheldon?
[grunts] I can't see!
Uh-oh.
[to Spike] Hey, ain't you a fire-breathin' dragon?
What?! How?!
[gasps] It's... It's the Magic of...
Yeah, yeah! Friendship, and flowers, and ponies, and bleh! I'm so totally over the cute pony thing. This... ends... now!
Uh-oh.
[maniacal laughter] Yeah!
Move them hooves, ponies!
You'd have to be flying faster than a speeding Pegasus to break through that wind!
[gasps] Excellent idea, Rainbow Dash!
Now I truly am the Storm King! And the entire world will bow to my ba-ba-ba-boom, baby!
Yes, yes, you are every bit as powerful as I promised, Sire, now, restore my horn and I swear to use my magic to serve you!
[laughs] Who cares about your dinky little unicorn horn?!
But... we... we had an agreement!
Get with the program! I used you! It's kind of what I do!
Ahh!
Ow!
Hold on!
Why are you saving me?
Because this is what friends do.
[sarcastically] Awwww! Isn't that just so sweet! [laughs] Yeah. See ya!
You sure about this?
Just do it! Thank you! I'm excited! Who's excited?! Aaah! I've never been so excited!
[laughs] Whee!
[laughs] Ooh!
[weakly] Bull's-eye!
Pinkie! You all came back! I'm so sorry! I was wrong to—
I'm sorry, too. Friends mess up sometimes, but we never should've—
Uh, make up later! This isn't over!
[grunts, gasps] I've gotta get control of it!
Go! You've got this, Twilight!
No. We've got this. Together.
Whee!
[grunts] The staff belongs to me!
Miiiiiine!! Mine!!!
Whoa!
No!
Twilight! Nooooooooooo!!!
Yay!
Yee-haw! [laughs] All right!
Nooo!!
Whoa! I can't believe she did that!
I can.
Now what?
Now... we fix everything.
[gasps] Twilight!
Princesses! Oh!
[clears throat] Fillies and gentlecolts, get ready for a little...
Songbird Serenade!
And now, to celebrate the fact that we're all still here in one piece, give it up for Princess Twilight and her friends!
All right! Way to go, guys!
Yeah! Ha ha ha ha!
I know you, you're a special one Some see crazy where I see love You fall so low but shoot so high Big dreamers shoot for open sky
So much life in those open eyes So much depth, you look for the light
Ooh!
And perfection!
But when your wounds open, you will cry
[gasps] Mom!
You'll cry out now and you'll question why
I can see a rainbow In your tears as they fall on down I can see your soul grow Through the pain as they hit the ground I can see a rainbow In your tears as the sun comes out As the sun comes out
Well, that's one thing that never changes around here. The party.
Well, I hope you'll stay. More friends are definitely merrier.
[sighs] But, um... my horn.
You know, your horn is pretty powerful, just like the pony it belongs to.
I did tell you I wanted to show everypony in Equestria what I could do, right?
I can see a rainbow In your tears as they fall on down I can see your soul grow Through the pain as they hit the ground
Nice touch, Tempest!
Actually, that's not my real name.
Oooh! What is it?!
[quietly] It's "Fizzlepop Berrytwist".
[gasps] Okay! That is the most awesome name ever!
I can see a rainbow In your tears as they fall on down I can see your soul grow Through the pain as they hit the ground I can see a rainbow In your tears as the sun comes out As the sun comes out
I am here and I see your pain Through the storms, through the clouds, the rain I'm telling you you can not escape You can do it, just feel, baby
I can see a rainbow In your tears as they fall on down I can see your soul grow Through the pain as they hit the ground I can see a rainbow In your tears as they fall on down I can see your soul grow Through the pain as they hit the ground In your tears as the sun comes out As the sun comes out
Here comes the sun smiling down Here comes the sun smiling down Here comes the sun smiling down Smiling down
I can see a rainbow In your tears as they fall on down I can see your soul grow Through the pain as they hit the ground I can see a rainbow In your— As the sun comes out
So, we wanna stay But can't find peace while sittin' still I guess we never will We're on the way We won't hurry back again The journey is the end (oh)
I love this very moment We're speedin' up, not slowin' We might know we can't win But we're dumb enough to try We're going, there's no maybe That's why they call us crazy And we'll say if anybody asks us
"Hey (hey!), where you gonna go?" [clap clap] We're off to see the world We don't need to know (oh) "Hey (hey!), where you gonna go?" [clap clap] We're off to see the world We don't need to know
We never need to know Seekin' boundaries to break Let's forget the ones we've made So we carry on Don't let good things pass us by The time we're gone will be the best time of our life
I love this very moment We're speedin' up, not slowin' We might know we can't win But we're dumb enough to try We're going, there's no maybe That's why they call us crazy And we'll say if anybody asks us
"Hey (hey!), where you gonna go?" [clap clap] We're off to see the world We don't need to know (oh) "Hey (hey!), where you gonna go?" [clap clap] We're off to see the world We don't need to know
So go tell 'em we won't stop We know they can't change us We're gonna go way off the map To get ourselves back on the track
Go tell 'em we won't stop We know they can't change us No need to worry so much We do whatever we want (oh)
"Hey (hey!), where you gonna go?" [clap clap] We're off to see the world We don't need to know (oh) "Hey (hey!), where you gonna go?" [clap clap] We're off to see the world We don't need to know (oh)
Ohhhh-oh-oh-oh-oh-oh Ohhhh-oh-oh-oh-oh-oh Ohhhh-oh-oh-oh-oh-oh Ohhhh-oh-oh-oh-oh-oh
[voiceover] 'Twas a single day left before Hearth's Warming Eve,
Everypony was busy, so much to achieve;
They hustled and bustled, their heads were a-spin,
And it's here that our holiday story begins...
Hearth's Warming Eve is almost here There's so much left to do
Still need to shop for all my friends But what to get? No clue!
This one is nice, and that's so cute Although that's pretty, too
Why do I make all these gifts each year? I doubt I'll make it through
[Rainbow Dash, Fluttershy, and Rarity] One more day before the cheer
Shop! Pay! Box! Wrap! Bow! Repeat!
[Rainbow Dash, Fluttershy, and Rarity] One last chance before the holiday's here
Box! Wrap! Bow! Again!
[Rainbow Dash, Fluttershy, and Rarity] One more day to make the holiday great One more day before we celebrate
One day, and then it's here
[Rainbow Dash, Fluttershy, and Rarity] One more chance to bring that holiday cheer
Hearth's Warming Eve is almost here A day for us to share
Friends and family all together
Pies and Apples and a Pear
Together families, lots of work There's so much to prepare
With all the planning we still have to do We've got no time to spare
One more day before the cheer
Stuff! Box! Wrap! Card! Bow! Repeat!
One last chance before the holiday's here
Stir! Pour! Bake! Again!
One more day to make the holiday bright
One more day, and I can sleep at night
The family's almost here
One more chance to bring that holiday cheer
Before the fun, there's preparation (Just around the corner) Shopping, cooking, decorations (The complications)
It's all worth it in the end Spreading joy to all your friends Even when it never, ever Ever seems to end Aah!
Hearth's Warming Eve is getting close We're not prepared, I fear Twilight, you should take a break
No time for rest, that much is clear
I made a list and checked it twice There's lots to do on here Oh, if I can't get everything done I'll have to wait and celebrate next year
One more day before the cheer Shop! Pay! Box! Wrap! Bow! Repeat! One last chance before the holiday's here Box! Wrap! Bow! Again! One more day to make the holiday great One more day until we celebrate
Please, oh, please make it really, really great!
One more gift, try to hurry, don't be late!
[Daisy, Rose, and Lily] Box! Wrap! Bow! Repeat! Gotta concentrate!
Just one more day until we all celebrate!
[grunts, to Twilight] Do we wanna know why you're wrapping up everypony in town?
Not wrapping paper. A to-do list.
Two of these! Three of those! I'm gonna need ten of those! Just in case!
Twilight, darling, are you all right?
Sure! Just-grabbing-a-few-things-do-I-need-this-no-that's-silly-I-need-eight!
Hey, y'all! What's everypony—? Ohhh. Traditional holiday meltdown?
Rainbow Dash, Fluttershy, Rarity, Spike, Uh-huh.
[calmly and quietly] Hey, Twilight. How's your day?
I got way behind grading midterms, and Cadance and Shining Armor are coming here with Flurry Heart for Hearth's Warming Eve, and I haven't started decorating, and I don't know what to get any of you, and—!
Stop! Take a breath.
Now let it out sloooooooooowwww...
Now, I think I have an idea that might help. What if we change up how we give gifts this year and do a Hearthswarmin' Helper?
What's a Hearthswarming Helper?
Whenever the whole Apple family got together, there were just so many of us, it didn't make sense to buy everypony gifts. So we'd put our names in a hat...
Ooh, a game of chance! Tell me more.
...then we'd pull a name, but keep it a secret.
A dash of mystery. Good. Good.
Instead of buyin' everypony a present, you just get one for the pony you picked from the hat.
Wait. So instead of lots of presents, I only buy one of you a present? What kind of game is this?!
Well, it would save time.
[clears throat] The less shopping, the better. In!
Will that help, Twilight?
I was stressed about shopping.
[sighs] Fine. I will only buy one present for my secret Hearthswarming Helper buddy.
We just need to put everypony's name in this here hat.
Y'all ready? No peekin'.
So excited! Aah! Too excited! I don't wanna give anything away!
Wheeee!
When will the gift exchange occur?
How about Twilight's castle tomorrow night, Hearth's Warming Eve?
That's perfect! Pinkie and I can spend the evenin' with y'all and the next mornin' with our families!
And thanks to all of you, I should be ready to celebrate by then!
Oh, this is so exciting!
Uh... Um, Applejack, is it against the rules to trade names? Like if I had a better idea for somepony special? I mean specific?
If you can figure out who has the pony you want and they're okay with tradin', I guess it's fine.
Great! So, uh, who do you—?
I don't have Rarity.
What?! That's not who I—!
Uh-huh.
Heeeey, Twilight! Whatcha planning to get your secret pony?
Not sure. I'm getting the castle ready for my family first. Then I'll shop.
Maybe something sparkly? Fashionable?
No! Those aren't really the kind of things my pony likes.
Oh. Welp, gotta go! Wish me luck!
With shopping?
Well, yeah! If everypony's only getting one gift, we have a ton of responsibility to make sure it's extra-special good.
I didn't think of it that way. The present I get for Pinkie Pie should make or break her holiday. I can't just go shopping and hope to find something nice. This needs forethought, planning, research! I'll decoarate later. Knowing Pinkie, she probably already has a perfect idea what to get her pony.
I have no idea what to get my pony!
There's a pile of presents right there. Pick one, and you're done.
Those were for when I was getting all of my friends matching harmony Hearth's Warming hats! Now it's just Twilight! [sobs] I can't give one pony a matching present with nothing to match it! I need something special for only her!
[deadpan] I've got it.
I don't think Twilight likes rocks as much as you do, Maud.
[deadpan] Don't rock it 'til you try it.
Thanks for the vote of confidence, Gummy. But this is the biggest holiday challenge I've ever faced!
[to Limestone] Uh, this one's for you. Hey! This is the biggest holiday challenge I've ever faced! How exciting is that?! Am I up for the challenge? I know I'm good at gift-giving, but am I the best at gift-giving?
Who would say they're the best at gift-giving? That's ridiculous.
Uhhhh—
Pinkie!
I don't have Rarity!
Whoa!
Oh! [chuckles] How's your shopping going, Spike?
Uh, fine!
[whispering] Which pony did you get?
I can't... remember?
I've got Applejack, darling. She's going to adore her present. There's a brilliant designer in Manehattan – Fedora Felt – who makes the most marvelous hats. I asked for a new take on western chic that would be the envy of every farm pony in Equestria.
That's a great gift, Rarity. I hope I can find something for my pony as special as you are. Uh, she is! U-Uh, bye!
Okay, what about your favorite food?
Ooh. I couldn't pick just one. What if it hurt the other foods' feelings?
Riiiiight... But there's gotta be something you really, really like.
I really, really like... everything! Why do you ask?
Juuuust getting gift ideas. Uh, for my pony. Who isn't you. So, uh, is there anything you don't like?
Hmmm... Not liking things!
I hope that helped!
Hey, Fluttershy! Thinking of getting that for your Hearthswarming Helper?
Mm-hmm. She loves shiny things.
[overacted] I wish I knew what my secret pony wanted. She's so hard to shop for.
Oh, no. Maybe I could help. Unless you don't want to—
Rainbow Dash.
Oh! I was just talking to Rainbow Dash about these—
Great idea! We should trade ponies!
Wait. Trade?
Well, Applejack said it's not against the rules. And you know what Rainbow Dash likes, so it's perfect. [gasps] Rarity?! What a surprise! [chuckles] Thanks!
There you are! I need your help.
Do you want to trade names, too?
What? No. I just need help figurin' out what to get Spike.
Phew!
Candle. Great. Whatever. Fluttershy-shopping done.
Ugh. You can't honestly be serious.
Ghost candle!
A candle is what you buy when you have no idea what to get somepony.
[groans] What do you want, Discord?
Fluttershy told me about this Hearth's whatever-it's-called. I may not be invited, but I wanted to make sure she gets a quality gift.
I tried asking her what she likes, but she likes everything.
Well, she says that, but her real friends know what she actually likes.
I've known her a lot longer than you have.
Then you must surely know that lit candles around adorably flammable animals make her nervous, don't you?
[groans] Fine. I'll get her something else.
Perhaps I'll tag along to steer you in the right direction.
Whoa!
I come to the Rainbow Falls Hearth's Warming Craft Fair every year. They have perfect presents for anypony.
Hopefully, anydragon, too. Wanna split up? Meet back here in an hour?
Sure.
Oh, no! There's only a few left!
Fillies and gentlecolts, we want you all to have the best holiday your bits can buy! But there are only a limited number left!
[to Flam] Limited number of what?
Why, you don't know about Holly the Hearth Warmer?
You seem like somepony looking for a gift for a very special friend.
I am!
A friend who wouldn't want to miss out on the must-have gift everypony is talking about?
She certainly wouldn't wanna miss out on that.
A truly awesome friend who deserves something twenty percent cooler than any other gift out there?
That sounds just like her!
Well, look no further! This is it!
Ooh! Ooh! How much does it cost?!
How much do you have?
Yojan! Is that good angle for optimal smashing?!
Guess who!
Yojan?
No, silly!
Ingville? Tormand? No, no, wait! Grimhorn!
Nope-ity, nope, nein, and nyet! It's me!
Aww, Prince Rutherford knew it Pink Pony all along! Yaks best at guessing.
[exclaims] Not here! Follow this way!
[whispering] Prince Rutherford about to tell honorary yak friend something very top secret.
Honorary yak friend listening.
[whispering] Yaks best at all things except one. Yaks not best at giving gifts.
[gasps] What?!
[whispering] I know! It hard to believe!
How am I gonna figure out how to give Twilight the best Hearth's Warming gift ever?!
[whispering] Oh, no worry, honorary yak. Prince Rutherford keep secret map in perfectly organized files.
Best gift givers up northern pass, where sky shimmers and glows. There, secret gift giver grove. Only yak princes and pink honorary yak know.
[muffled] My lips are sealed.
[shouting] Time for my top-secret quest to the Gift Givers!
Oh, hi, Rarity. How can I help you?
I expected a package today, and I was wondering where that might be.
Oh, okay. Uh, let's check. Name?
Uh, Rarity?
[clears throat, mumbles] Oh! Here we go! Your package was delivered to Sweet Apple Acres.
What?! It was supposed to be delivered to Rarity's Boutique!
Um... okay... but... now, the package was for Applejack, and she is at Sweet Apple Acres.
[low growl] Yes, it's for Applejack, but I will be delivering it.
Uh... that's my job.
It's a gift for Applejack from me.
[gasps] What if she opens it?! It shouldn't go to Sweet Apple Acres! Oh! Wait! It went to Sweet Acorn Orchard instead! [laughs] Oh, well, that's a relief.
Why is that a relief?!
Because Applejack's not in Sweet Acorn Orchard. Do you want me to get the package and deliver it to her?
No! [clears throat] Uh, may I have the address for Sweet Acorn Orchard? I think I'll just collect the package myself.
Are you sure? 'Cause I would be happy to—
You have helped so much already.
Break time!
Shopping for Rarity. No problem. She likes lots of stuff. I just need something special.
Brand-new top-of-the-line sewing equipment?
A priceless rhinestone necklace?
"Top Notch": A sculpture of Rarity made from smaller sculptures of Rarity?
[gasps] Oooh... Wow! Awesome! Shopping for Rarity. Slight problem. She likes lots of stuff. But nothing is special enough!
Oh, goodness, no.
Ugh!
Even worse!
Oh, come on!  Fluttershy would love a spa day!
Really? Love the stress of deciding which treatment to get? Love worrying that she's not relaxing enough? Or relaxing too much? And what about all those sweet animals she's left alone?! So much to worry about, and all because of you.
She's Fluttershy! Everything makes her worry!
Now you sound like somepony who knows her!
Well, if you're such an expert on Fluttershy, what did you get her?
Oh, and you honestly expect me to tell you what I got Fluttershy so that you can one-up me? Well, I have half a mind to stop you entirely.
Good! Please stop helping me! I'm begging you!
Well, I suppose I could tell you what my backup present was.
[sarcastically] Great. Still helping.
It would've made a lovely addition to her animal sanctuary. But you have to be the fastest pony in Equestria to even have a chance of—
Whoa-whoa-whoa-whoa-whoa. You're talking to the fastest pony in Equestria! If there's some fast animal out there Fluttershy would love, I'm the one who can get it.
Oh, I just don't know.
I'm calling it! Dibs!
The ideal gift for Pinkie Pie needs to be A – unique, B – specific to her personality, and C – food-based. What is a unique food? Cupcakes? Nah. Cookies? Nope. Pies? Pastries? Pudding? [gasps] Wait! [echoing] Puuuuuuuuuuuudding! [reading] "After defeating the Windigos, the Earth pony, Pegasi, and unicorn nations prepared the first Hearth's Warming meal together. Chancellor Puddinghead made a pudding so delicious, legends were written about it!" This is it! Unique, totally Pinkie, the most incredible dessert ever!
Where's the recipe?!
I've narrowed down my choices for Spike to fire-dancing sticks, or a Power Ponies comic. Unenchanted, I think. Aah! What is that?!
Holly the Hearth's Warmer doll. Isn't she sweet?
Holly the Hearth' [Flim's voice] I love being an expensive toy!
Egh. Why'd you think that was a good gift for Rainbow Dash?
It's the must-have gift of the season. And in short supply.
"Short supply", huh? How much did that set you back?
All my bits. All my bits? Can I borrow some for the train ride home?
Somethin' about this here doll seems fishy. And I ain't just talkin' about the smell of that plastic. Where'd you get it?
Flim and Flam! What are those two Hearth's Warmin' hooligans up to now?!
Uh, is this Sweet Acorn Orchard?
It is. But we've never had no pony like you visit before.
Rarity. Uh, pleasure. I'm actually here about a package that was recently deliv—
Oh, that was from you?
[sighs] So it did arrive! [chuckles] Uh, if I could just—
We don't know how to thank you!
Thank me?
I was just sayin' to Butternut I wish we knew who our Hearth's Warming miracle was.
Oak Nut and I couldn't believe it when we opened it. Pistachio said right away whoever sent it just got him.
Says when he put it on, he could feel his destiny.
As an... acorn farmer?
[scoffs] A farmer?! Filly, please! This is a Fedora Felt original! Look at this bold stitching. These daring textures. It's a whole new take on western chic. There is no way I would wear it in the grove!
We don't know where he got his fashion sense.
Heh. Far as we know, a hat's a hat.
Except when it's art.
Thank you, Rarity.
Rarity? The Rarity?!
Mm-hmm.
You have to stay for lunch! I won't take no for an answer!
Oh, well, I, uh... I would be delighted.
The recipe for Chancellor Puddinghead's magical pudding was filed under "Magical Spells", not "Recipes". Only took four hours to figure that out. Let's see. Nutmeg, sugarplums, gingerbread, candy canes... [reading] "Warning – To avoid untold culinary devastation, each ingredient must be measured with exact care." [laughs] Book, have you met me?!
Happy Hearth's Harming!
But you're early. Your scroll said you were coming tomorrow.
Uh, the scroll we sent yesterday?
Yesterday. Right. Welcome! Uh, what are you doing?
Decorations not up. Frazzled mane. Determined look. I've seen this before. What are you obsessing about this time, Twily?
Nothing!
So, decorations aren't up because...?
Uh, I thought it would be more fun if we all decorated it together!
Oh, that sounds wonderful. We could start decorating right aw—
After I finish one quick errand. Just a few ingredients. Nothing to obsess about here! [laughs] Make yourselves at home. Be right back! Promise!
She's definitely freaking out about something.
Oh, yeah.
By Blitzen's beard, it took you long enough!
Aah!
Are you sure you were expecting me? My name is—
Pinkie Pie. I know. Because I know everything.
Oh, don't be silly. You only know what's already happened. But you don't know what she's about to ask.
What am I about to ask? How did you know I was gonna say that?!
Will you two stop showing off? She doesn't have all Hearth's Warming.
Who are you reindeer?
Aurora.
Bori.
Alice.
Aurora, Bori, The Gift Givers of the Grove!
Ooh! And you can help me give Twilight the best gift ever?!
Mm-hmm!
What about those matching hats? They were so cute.
Well, that was—
Before she had to get just one gift for Twilight. Try to keep up, Aurora.
I'm gonna get that box Pinkie is gonna say she likes.
Aurora remembers gifts that have already happened. Alice knows the gifts that are going to happen. I just stay in the moment and keep the two of them in line. Speaking of, I believe we have a request for a gift.
The best gift is more precious than gold, but it cannot be sold.
When it breaks, it's not ended, for quickly it's mended.
It can never be bought yet is easily sought. Ah! Here we go!
Ooh! I like that box!
Told ya.
[gasps] The perfect gift! Wow! I don't get it.
You will.
We said no refunds!
Oh. You.
What are y'all doin' with these dolls and that ridiculous getup? Don't you have a resort to run?
It's off-season. Besides, we're planning an expansion.
And expansions cost bits.
Flim and Flam's Fro-Yo Flume Ride!
Well, that sounds fu—
It ain't no excuse for sellin' cheap dolls to ponies.
We're just giving ponies what they want.
Shopping for the perfect gift is stressful.
Oh, that's true.
You want to get something that really stands out.
I do.
And when you tell your friend you got them the hottest gift in Rainbow Falls, what'll they say?
"Woo-hoo"?
Holly the Hearth' [Flim's voice] The more you spend, the more your friend knows you love them!
Oh, right. They really are good at selling things.
You may not like it.
But technically, we're not doing anything wrong.
Ponies are desperate for the right gift.
And who are you to tell them this isn't it?
If ponies get tired of Holly after a few days...
...or she falls apart, who really got hurt?
Nopony!
Don't let the curtain hit ya on the way out.
Of course Rainbow Dash wouldn't want this! I'm so mad, I could just... kick!
Convincin' ponies to buy that doll ain't in the holiday spirit!
But Flim and Flam have a point. We can't tell ponies what to buy.
Huh. But maybe we can show 'em!
Guh. Could you try to make less noise?
We'll move silently.
Blend into the shadows. The winterchilla will never hear us coming.
Winterchilla?
Small, adorable, fuzzy, and fast. But they're so rare, there's no telling where they— Oh, there's one right there!
Now, if you're going to get it, I think the first move is to—
Be super fast?
Have a wonderful holiday. And remember, no refunds. Next!
What are you doing here?
Same as everypony else.
I want a Hearth's Warmer. In fact, I want three!
Seriously?
[overacted] After I saw my friend here with hers, I knew I had to buy some for my granny, my brother, and my little sister!
Yeah, yeah, great story. Next!
[overacted] But, Applejack, your granny, your brother, and your sister, they are all so different. How can the same doll be the right gift for all of them?
"Burning passion": Oh. Well, that might be true.
[overacted] But, Fluttershy, this is the must-have gift of the season.
[overacted] Just because it's must-have for one pony doesn't mean it's must-have for everypony, does it?
[overacted] That's true! I guess I need to put more thought into getting the right gift for each pony. Can I return these?
No refunds!
Oh, uh, you want 'em? I'm gonna go pick out gifts that are just as special as the ponies they're for.
"Minty Bubblegum" I... think I'm gonna do some more shopping, too.
Now, hang on a moment! Wait! Come back!
We'll give you a great deal!
Buy one, get one free?!
[sighs] The sweet sounds of the season.
It's a shame you got to leave.
Oh, you've been so generous. But I must get home for a previous engagement. I'll be keeping an eye on you, Pistachio. I have the feeling you've got quite the future in fashion.
Rarity! Rarity! I love my parents, but... they don't understand that we just had lunch with one of the most famous ponies in Equestria.
I know you didn't send a Fedora Felt original to some nopony you've never met from Nowhere, Equestria. I'm sure this is actually for somepony special, so... if you want it back, I get it.
The hat is indeed for somepony very special. And I couldn't bear to see him part with it.
But if I hear you call yourself a nopony again, you shan't be my guest for Fashion Week in Manehattan.
W-What—? S-Seriou—? Wha—?!
[softly] Sorry, Applejack.
Puttin' those two in their places makes me all warm and fuzzy inside.
Ooh. But we never got gifts for Spike or Rainbow Dash, and it's already Hearth's Warming Eve.
It probably ain't what they're expectin', but we still got these. Yay.
Don't do that.
Flurry loved sledding.
Too bad her aunt wasn't there.
Shh!
Ooh!
There. Ingredients measured exactly. Now, what were you saying?
Hi, remember us? We came all the way from the Crystal Empire for some quality family time?
Okay, I did get a little stressed about Hearth's Warming this year.
Ooh!
[laughs] What? You? Never!
So my friends decided we should do a Hearthswarming Helper and give one pony a present to save time.
What?
Let me guess. You got super worried about making sure the present was perfect and went all Twily-nanas, didn't you?
I wasn't Twily-nanas! Okay, fine. A little Twily-nanas.
Twilight, we know you get overwhelmed. You should have just told us. We could've helped.
The good news is Pinkie's present is almost done, and it's just friends and family and a calm, quiet Hearth's Warming Eve.
[tearfully] Goodbye. Enjoy your exclusive pony-only holiday gathering. I'll just be home, spending quality time with... myself.
Uh... I wouldn't have this little fella without you, so... if you wanna join, Fluttershy would love having you. And I wouldn't totally hate it.
Great! Awesome! In that case— Oh, look! Sunset! It's officially Hearth's Warming Eve!
What is it doing?
Oh. Uh, did I forget to mention that the winterchilla transforms into a winterzilla when the sun sets?
How did everypony's shopping go?
Well...
Uh...
Yeeeeeah...
Coming!
Did you get attacked by a party?
I fell asleep. On somepony's present.
Run!
The pudding is coming!
Run! The winterzilla is coming!
What is that?!
Magic pudding! What is that?!
A winterchilla!
They turn into winterzillas after dark!
Does everypony know this except me?!
Aah!
[gasps] You like the sparkly?
Just follow it this way!
Is this honestly the best plan we can come up with?!
Can't you do something?!
I did! This is Fluttershy's gift.
What?!
[grunting] A little help, please!
I've got this!
Which one of us can fly, darling?
Whoa!
Your mom sure is something.
[giggles] You're not so bad yourself.
No-no-no! Not that sparkly! This one!
[grunts] I'm okay if he doesn't want to chase me anymore!
How are we gonna get rid of this thing?!
Oh, for Scorpan's sake!
Hello?! If only one of you had a way with animals?!
Oh, my.
Uh... [clears throat] Excuse me.
Whoa! This is supposed to be the happiest time of year! So if this is how you plan on behaving, you can march yourself right back to where you came from!
Awww. Your family is gone for the holidays, and you're all alone?
I'm so sorry. If you calm down, I'm sure you could join us.
Uh, maybe leave the baking to me next time. [giggles, chewing] Actually, it's pretty good.
Chancellor Puddinghead's recipe.
Now, that's an impressive dessert!
It's your Hearth's Warming present!
Really? That's so thoughtful.
It took a lot of research, but I—
Maybe focus on the task at hoof, Twily?
Right. The recipe needed to be exact. I think Flurry Heart added something while I wasn't looking, but I have no idea what to add to adjust it. A teaspoon of nutmeg, three sugarplums, extra—
Gingerbread? Four more candy canes?
How do you know the recipe?
I don't get it.
You will.
Happy Hearth's Warming, Twilight! I'm your Hearthswarming Helper!
Uh, a bit reindeer ex machina, but... two thumbs way up! Whoo!
Sorry for failing as a Hearthswarming Helper, Pinkie.
[sighs] At least Twilight has something to show for her effort. I ordered you a fabulous farm hat, Applejack. Alas, it decided it belonged to somepony else.
Pops said sometimes the hat chooses the pony when he gave me this. Hopefully my gift inspired whoever's wearin' it to be the best farmer ever.
Uhhh, ooh... Something like that.
We're really sorry about your gifts.
We got a bit distracted with Flim and Flam's shenanigans.
Holly the Hearth' [Flim's voice] Commercialism is the greatest gift of all!
They're better than my gift. [sighs] Sorry about the winterzilla.
[giggling] Oh, he's a big sweetheart. And he ended up being really helpful.
It was actually kind of nice to be the pony who saved the day for once.
Oh, really? You mean a giant beast that only Fluttershy could tame, making her the hero of Hearth's Warming Eve, was a great gift?
Imagine that.
[stutters, blows] You mean you tricked me into putting my friend in danger on purpose so you—?!
Let's just say it was from both of us.
I guess Hearthswarming Helper was kind of a disaster.
I don't know. Ponyville always seems to have way more exciting holidays than the Crystal Empire.
There's one gift left, but I messed up, too. Your present's only kind of finished, Rarity, but I guess it's better than nothing.
I wanted to get you Something oh, so rare A gift to show I care But nothing can compare
To you, that's easy to see But I got stressed and overthought Until the day was shot And it was all for naught But now it's clear to me
I'm not gifted at gifting It's really pretty sad I tried to show I care But it turned out bad
I'm not gifted at gifting So all that's left to say Is that I really hope my gifting Didn't ruin your holiday
Oh, Spike. A song is a lovely present.
I wanted to get you the best gift ever. I just couldn't figure out what it was.
Ooh, ooh! The Gift Givers told me that! Oh, what was it? The best gift is more precious than gold, but it cannot be sold. When it breaks, it's not ended, for quickly it's mended. It can never be bought yet is easily sought.
What's so funny?
It's a riddle, and the answer is "friendship"!
The most magical gift That I can recall It could've been big or small Or even nothing at all
It doesn't matter, you see If it's from my friends on whom I depend No matter what you spend It will be perfect to me
The true gift of gifting Is what it means inside We can show we care Spreading love far and wide
The true gift of gifting Is totally free And you're the best there is at givin' it With the friendship that you give to me
We've all been friends forever And look how far we've come (how far we've come) The holiday brings us close And now it's time for fun (it's now begun)
The greatest gift you give to me Is more precious than gold
Ah-ah-ah-ah
Never ended, always mended And it can't be bought or sold
The true gift of gifting Is what it means inside We can show we care Spreading love far and wide
The true gift of gifting Is totally free And you're the best there is at givin' it With the friendship that you give to me
And so it worked out,
And a lesson was learned, there's no need to obsess;
Gift-
Friendship is the best gift of all.
